---
title: Configuration Architecture
index: 5
---

# Configuration architecture

The configuration architecture is split into the following types:

**Static configuration**  
Settings are internal configuration to the microservice. These can be parameters that should not be hardcoded and may change at a later time, but are not needed to be externalized. Changing them should require a new version of the service.

**Installation or startup configuration**  
Settings are required at startup or installation of an application, and include things such as port of the service or dependencies such as MongoDB and LDAP.

**Runtime or post-startup configuration**  
Settings are required for integrations or configurable options such as enabling or disabling notifications and properties to connect to external tools like Jira<sup>®</sup>. They can be set by the admins and operators after startup through the Boomerang Admin Settings page.

## Startup configuration

### Application root context

You cannot assume that an application is served from a root context of `/` or any root context for that matter. The goal is to have one container image that can be deployed to any environment on any root context. Consider the following situations for web applications:

**Server-side and hash routing**  
If your application is server rendered or makes use of hash routing, you must use relative paths to assets like .js and .css files. Absolute paths will not work as the root context will change as the application is deployed to different environments.

```diff
- <link rel="stylesheet" href="/path/to/assets/main.css">
+ <link rel="stylesheet" href="main.css">

- <script href="/path/to/assets/main.js"></script>
+ <script href="main.js"></script>
```

**SPA with client-side routing**  
If you are building an SPA with client-side routing, you must use absolute references to assets or hash routing. Relative references to assets with client-side routing will break, as the relative path will change on each route change and assets will not be found. We build our applications with a placeholder path to the static assets and at container runtime we inject a environment variable used to rewrite asset paths with a script to be environment specific.

**Ingress rewrite rules**  
If the Kubernetes<sup>®</sup> ingress is _NOT_ rewriting requests to your application (`/path/to/app` -> `/`), then you will need to set up your server to accept an environment variable to configure your app to use. All requests will come in on the full path and not `/`. The example in the next [section](#Startup-Configuration-and-Environment-Variable-Injection) shows this in an Node.js Express application.

### Startup configuration and environment variable injection

These settings will be passed through at installation time via the Helm<sup>®</sup> chart and are either configurable as Helm chart parameters or hard-coded in the ConfigMap or definition files. Values provided at startup can be injected into the containers at runtime to be used by applications. This is key in enabling applications to support deployment to multiple environments.

The following Kubernetes Deployment YAML and Node.js Express snippets show how an application can be configured and written to work on any root context via an environment variable.

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
    - name: app-demo
      image: bmrg-app-demo:1.0.0-1
      env:
        - name: APP_ROOT
          value: /dev
```

```js
import express from "express";

const APP_ROOT = process.env.APP_ROOT;
const app = express();

app.get(`${APP_ROOT}/heartbeat`, (req, res) => {
  res.json({ message: "I am alive" });
});
```

This application will respond on `/dev/heartbeat`.

### Using the Kubernetes service registry for internal clients

An important thing to consider is what client is calling a service and where that client exists relative to the Kubernetes instance. For example, if a Node.js service hosted on the Boomerang platform needs to communicate with the Boomerang Core service like `Auth`, the DNS name from the Kubernetes service registry needs to be used. The service DNS name is environment-specific and will be injected via the YAML like in example above. Consider the following example:

```js
const SERVICE_REGISTRY_DNS_AUTH = process.env.SERVICE_REGISTRY_DNS_AUTH; // http://bmrg-service-auth-dev

const { data } = await fetch.get(`${SERVICE_REGISTRY_DNS_AUTH}/users`);
```

### Consuming services from an external client

For example, in a web application, the client (the user's browser) will be external to the Kubernetes instance and the external DNS name for a Boomerang service needs to be used in order to communicate with it. The following JavaScript snippet from a React application shows how to configure a base service url for all service calls made to the Boomerang services. In the following example we have injected the environment variable into the `<head>` tag of the HTML document via the `_ENV_VAR_DATA` object. We access it by the global `window` object. The value is exported so it can be consumed throughout the application.

```js
// serviceConfig.js
export const BASE_SERVICE_ENV_URL =  window._ENV_VAR_DATA ? window._ENV_VAR_DATA.BASE_SERVICE_ENV_URL || "http://localhost:8000" // Fallback for local development

// Users.js component
import { BASE_SERVICE_ENV_URL } from "../config/serviceConfig";

const { user } = await fetch.get(`${BASE_SERVICE_ENV_URL}/launchpad/users`);
```

### Configmap settings

These are settings configured and defined in the configmap that can be provided at installation time via the Helm charts values yaml.

## Post-startup configuration

Post-Startup Configuration settings are configurable through the Boomerang Admin web application on the Settings screen.

This uses a combination of the Settings Lib and database loaders to make settings available.

### Admin settings

Certain global platform settings are defined and available from the Admin Settings screen.

### Catalog settings

Catalog Settings can be added per catalog item and can be used to provide global or team level settings.

For example, if you define a team level catalog setting, then it can have a value entered as part of the onboarding Create actions.
