---
title: What's New
index: 3
---

# What's New

Get a quick overview of what has been added, changed, improved, or deprecated in version 7.1.0 released 24th April 2020.

We focussed on stabalization with enhancements in the area of Triggers and support for additional entitlements.

## Entitlements

- Add team Operator and Approver entitlements. See the [security architecture](/boomerang-cicd/7.1.0/architecture/security-architecture) to understand what actions each entitlement can perform
- Improve RBAC implementation throughout to improve data security and user experience

## UI/UX

- Further adoption of Carbon Design System (CDS) with Boomerang theme
- Improve and update iconography use throughout
- Refine typography and color use throughout

## Components

- Major update to Triggers experience
- Major update Pipelines experience
- Add link to view external logs for Flow executor
- Minor updates to Activity and Settings

## Pipelines

- Major update Pipelines and Stages experience
- Update metadata with informative helper text for all Stage Configuration properties
- Add ability to set additional security related test properties
- Improve configure gates experience and add option to enable Approvals
- New Gate type with the addition of an Approval Gate that requires an Approver to approve the Deploy activity
- New Approvals as part of gates are now available with support for approver comments.

## Workers

- Leverage the new Boomerang Worker CLI and Core node modules to create a new Boomerang CICD Worker
- Support Custom Registry Login for packaging a container
- Support optional ingress for the Kubernetes Deployment Target
- Support bring-your-own Kubernetes YAML files for the Kubernetes Deployment Target

## Modes

- NPM publishing added as `lib.npm` mode.

## Integrations

- Confirm Sonarqube integration with version 7.9. Includes migration to a Postgres instance due to [deprecation of MySQL](https://community.sonarsource.com/t/end-of-life-of-mysql-support/8667)
- Add HCL Application Security on the Cloud integration as a security test type.
- Support Boomerang Flow as a CI executor for supported modes. Please see the [worker and executor architecture](/boomerang-cicd/7.1.0/architecture/worker-and-executor-architecture.md) to further detail.

## Performance and Stability

- Upgrade CICD Worker to Alpine 3.11.3. Previously used Alpine 3.9.
- Reduce CICD Worker compressed container image by 33%.
- Support for dedicated infrastructure. When installing and configuring Boomerang CICD, you can now set dedicated kubernetes nodes using node selectors and tolerations for the Boomerang CICD Workers to run on.
- Reduce maximum time between git push to first activity slack notifications from 1 minute to 5 seconds (average 90% reduction in time).
- Reduce average page load times for component listing, page activity, and requests by 50%.
