---
title: Mode is Node.js
index: 6
---

# Node.js mode

The Boomerang CI Node.js mode worker will compile the built artifact into a docker container image, and store this image in the private, secure Boomerang Docker Registry.

Currently this mode only supports Node.js 8 and only GitHub repositories.

## Boomerang Properties

The following properties can be used with `mode=nodejs` in the `.boomerang.properties` file.

This file needs to be located in the `_boomerang` folder in the root directory of your .git repository.

`.boomerang.properties` :

```
#General
mode=nodejs
build.tool=npm

#Slack Notifications
notifications.type=slack
notifications.slack.channel=
notifications.slack.dm=

#Filtering
filter.target=tag
filter.expression=^(\d+\.)?(\d+\.)?(\*|\d+)$

#Enable docker packaging
docker.enable=true
```

### Build Tool

`build.tool=` tells Boomerang CI what type of build script to apply. We currently support the following types:

| **Build Tool** | **Support** |                                        **Useful For**                                         |
| :------------: | :---------: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| build.tool=npm |    beta     | Currently defines the use of a Node.js microservice and compiled using Node v8 LTS and npm@5. |

## Prerequisites

### Build Tool Files

The required files for the respective build tools are required to be in the root directory.

- _npm:_ `package.json`

### npm

Project dependencies are hosted on the Boomerang Artifactory instance or the public npm repository, [registry.npmjs.org](`https://registry.npmjs.org/`).

### Docker

If you have set `docker.enable=true`, a `Dockerfile` shoul be present in the root directory of the repository for the build to be successful. We will make a best effort to build an image from a default Dockerfile for Node.js projects if it is not present and the option is enabled. This is not guaranteed to work.

A sample is as follows:

```
FROM node:alpine

WORKDIR /opt

COPY . .

EXPOSE 3000

#The `CMD` command must resolve to a property in the `scripts` object in the `package.json` file. It must be in the root of the directory you are executing your `CMD` command from.
CMD ["npm", "start"]
```

## Assumptions

### Dependencies

We perform a `npm install` or a `yarn install` depending on what "lockfiles" are present in your repository. The `node_modules` folder does _not_ need to be committed to the repository and root-level dependencies do _not_ need to be installed by the `Dockerfile`. They are installed outside the Dockefile and added to the context at build time of the Docker image. This follows best practices for Docker and helps reduce the number of layers and Docker image size. If you have a more complex application with sub root-level dependencies, installation of those dependencies must be performed in the `Dockerfile`.

### Building

If you require a build step (e.g. babel transpilation, minification, etc.) before the Docker image is built, the necessary processes must be performed via the `npm run build` command. By npm convention, 'prebuild' and 'postbuild' will automatically be executed. The CI pipeline will look for the `build` property on the `scripts` object in the `package.json` and execute it if found. If you have other build steps to perform, scripts can be executed in the `Dockerfile`.

### Testing

We assume that you have tests written as .js files in the `test` directory at the root of the repository. We assume that Mocha can be used to execute the tests. Istanbul is used for code coverage.

### Docker Port

For the out-of-the-box Boomerang CI Docker pipeline, there are constraints on the exposed ports for the service. The ports is `3000`

## Scorecard

It currently does not support compilation data. All other sources of testing data for Scorecard are supported.
