---
title: Development Standards
index: 5
---

# Development Standards

When developing in a team, you need to allow flexibility balanced with rigor to ensure standards are met. This document explains the collaborative code management and development standards to help provide guidance to development teams.

For this to work, all developers must have tools to assist them in identifying, tracking, and developing quality code. A mechanism also needs to exist to provide feedback on the quality of their work. This process needs to bring together business, development and quality assurance to dramatically transform how organizations develop applications.

- Developers will follow a defined branching strategy and be able to commit and request for review
- Developers will receive feedback on their quality
- Developers will receive feedback automatically through a persistent communication tool

## Source Code Management

The following are the code management standards and how we do branching, review requests and releases.

1. All work must occur on branches following the defined branching strategy
2. All work must have a pull request to be merged into the default branch (generally develop or stable). [GitHub Pull Request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/)

All source code is to be placed in IBM's GitHub Enterprise instance.

### Branch Strategy

The following are the code management standards and how we do branching, review requests and releases.

|           **Name**           |             **Example**              |                                                             **Description**                                                              |
| :--------------------------: | :----------------------------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
|            master            |                  -                   | Represents the code that is currently in production. After a deploy to production the develop / stable branch will be merged into master |
|       develop / stable       |                  -                   |                     Current branch for development work. Each feature / bug branch will be created off this branch.                      |
|      release-\<version>      |             release-2.1              |                     Branch for the release creatd after release has been completed. It only receives hotfix commits.                     |
|     feature-\<jira-id\>      |           feature-PLT-225            |          Individual task / feature branch. Every feature will be perfomed in separate branches and requires a linked Jira task           |
| feature-\<jira-id\>-\<name\> | feature-PLT-225-componenttagcreation |                             **Optional**. Same as above with optional shortened name / description appended.                             |
|       bug-\<jira-id\>        |             bug-PLT-227              |                                                          Individual fix branch                                                           |
|   bug-\<jira-id\>-\<name\>   |      bug-PLT-227-buildsqlquery       |                             **Optional**. Same as above with optional shortened name / description appended.                             |
| hotfix-\<jira-id\>-\<name\>  |     hotfix-PLT-227-buildsqlquery     |                              Used for fixing a release branch. The fix must be ported to the default branch                              |

Adding the Jira project key and issue number in the branch name allow us to automatically link the branch to the issue in Jira.

### Git Commit Standards

We follow the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.2/) standard with the [conventional config](https://github.com/marionebl/commitlint/tree/master/%40commitlint/config-conventional). We extend it by including the Jira issue when appropriate for tracking purposes. The structure is the following:

```text
<type>([optional scope]): <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer]
```

e.g. `feat(header): add user profile image`

## Versioning

Follow semantic versioning according to the guidance on [semver.org](http://semver.org/). When publishing pre-release versions, pay attention to [item 9](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html#spec-item-9). This useful for testing changes in an development environment without breaking semantic version and causing confusion for consumers of a service or library.

## Releases

Create a release branch that matches the release version for all of the repos. Follow the format `release-<version>` e.g. `release-2.0` or `release-2.1`.

Follow the [Manage releases guidance](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/git-branching-guidance?view=azure-devops#manage-releases) to manage bugfixes, hotfixes and porting changes back to the `develop` branch.

Ensure that your Branch protection rules in GitHub protect your new release from deletion, force pushes and other unwanted updates. A branch name pattern of `[dr][ea][vl][!o]*` allows one rule to cover both the `develop` branch and all of the `release-*` branches.

## Shared Libraries and Frameworks

As we build out these services on Boomerang it is important to keep in mind a common shared development approach. This may mean developing in a modular way and adopting components or modules of code that have been built previously, or contributing new modules that can be shared with others.

## Unit Testing

Unit tests need to be created and maintained throughout the development process. The extensiveness and method of writing unit tests with vary from technology choice however here is a general guide to follow.

As a condition for merging your code into the stable branch, all incoming branches must have unit tests and must not have any failing unit tests.

Refer to the individual development standards for Web and API development found in the navigation.

## Dockerfiles

Its key to ensure that you have an optimized Dockerfile that is also as up to date and secure as possible. Some key things to ensure this occurs is to review the Dockerfile with any major release (i.e. every 12 weeks)

1. Update the version of the dependent container in your `FROM`
2. Ensure that any dependencies added to the Dockerfile are removed if not needed at runtime.
3. Ensure that any secure variables and files are not stored in the Container as its file system can be inspected by anyone

### Non Root User

Its common practice to run containers as non root unless needed. For OpenShift, the user ID will be over ridden with an arbitrary generated user ID.

The placement of this block can be important, by a general rule we place it before the EXPOSE and ENTRYPOINT to ensure all the required dependency and actions are taken before changing permissions, and also to ensure the permissions don't miss anything.

This also includes not installing or running anything under a `/root` folder.

```docker
# Create user, chown, and chmod.
# OpenShift requires that a numeric user is used in the USER declaration instead of the user name
RUN chmod -R u+x $BMRG_HOME \
    && chgrp -R 0 $BMRG_HOME  \
    && chmod -R g=u $BMRG_HOME
USER 2000
```

### Non Standard Port

The default for OpenShift is that ports below 1024 are not allowed unless the Security Context is adjusted. Its best to expose the container on a non standard port and then map the kubernetes service definition.

```shell
EXPOSE 8080
```
