---
title: Migrations and Enhancements
index: 8
---

# Migrations and Enhancements

As the kubernetes, and associated technologies such as Docker, change over time, we must also implement changes either as migrations of functionality or as enhancements to enable new features.

## Migrations

### Helm charts to v3

Starting with version 7.3.0 all Boomerang charts were migrated to helm v3 structure and best practices. The following are the typical changes when migrating a helm chart from v2 to v3 structure.

1. Update the `apiVersion` field of the `Chart.yaml` file from v1 to v2,
2. Define the type of the helm chart in `Chart.yaml` file, either `application` or `library` depending on the scope of the chart,
3. Move the `dependencies` section from the `requirements.yaml` file into `Chart.yaml` file,
4. Remove the old `requirements.yaml` file from the chart definition.


### Helm releases based on v2 to v3

The helm releases that are already installed based on v2 helm charts can be migrated on helm v3 structure following these steps. The process is also documented [here](https://helm.sh/blog/migrate-from-helm-v2-to-helm-v3/).

1. Install helm v3 on your local machine and create a link named `helm3` to the binary. Do not uninstall yet helm v2 from your local, you will needed it later for back-up,
2. Install the helm plugin called helm-2to3 by running:
```
helm3 plugin install https://github.com/helm/helm-2to3
```
3. Backup your helm v2 data:
  - All releases in the same yaml file:
  ```
  kubectl get configmaps --namespace kube-system --selector OWNER=TILLER --output yaml > helm2_backup_dir/helm2_backup_cm.yaml
  ```
  - Each release in its own yaml file:
  ```
  kubectl get configmaps --namespace kube-system --selector OWNER=TILLER,NAME=<release_name> --output yaml > <release_name>_helm2_backup_cm.yaml
  ```
4. Migrate helm v2 configuration and repositories by running:
```
helm3 2to3 move config
```
5. Migrate the release from v2 to v3 by running the following command. Consider first running it with `--dry-run` flag to prevent unwanted changes.
```
helm3 2to3 convert <release_name>
```
6. Clean-up the helm v2 release metadata by running the following command. Consider first running it with `--dry-run` flag to prevent unwanted changes.
```
helm3 2to3 cleanup <release_name>
```

_Notes:_
1. Once all the releases from all the namespaces were migrated from your cluster then Tiller deployment can be removed.


### ICP 3.2 and above

For charts to work as part of IBM Automation Platform 2.1+ / Boomerang Platform 6.1+, running on ICP 3.2+, certain changes are needed to work with the newer versions of Kubernetes, NGINX, and other components.

1. Updates to the ingress rewrite-target and path to use capture groups. See [Rewrite-Target and Path](/ise/standards/helm-charts#rewrite-target-and-path)
2. Updates to the requirements.yaml common helper methods version. See [Rewrite-Target and Path](/ise/standards/helm-charts#implementation)
3. Updates to the ingress annotations for Boomerang Auth Proxy integration. See [Authentication](/ise/standards/helm-charts#authentication)
4. Update chart to work with Network Policies and Zones. See [Network Policies and Zones](/ise/standards/helm-charts#network-policies-and-zones)
5. Updates to security with custom roles. Talk to the IAP SRE team if your containers require any kubernetes level permissions.
6. Updates to the deployment yamls for `kind: Deployment` from `apps/v1betaX` to `apiVersion: apps/v1`

### OCP 3.11 and above

For chart to work as part of IBM Automation Platform 2.1+ / Boomerang Platform 6.1+, running on OCP 3.11+, certain changes are needed to work with OpenShift.

1. Update container to non-root user allowing for dynamically changing auto assigned UserID. See [Development Dockerfile Standards](/ise/standards/development-standards#non-root-user)
2. Update container to non standard port and ensure helm chart is using this port. If you are using the standard Boomerang helm chart template then this would already be the case. See [Development Dockerfile Standards](/ise/standards/development-standards#non-standard-port)


**References**
 - https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.2/openshift_images/create-images.html#images-create-guide-openshift_create-images
 - https://www.twistlock.com/labs-blog/non-root-containers-kubernetes-cve-2019-11245-care/
