---
title: Getting Started
index: 2
---

# Getting started

## Solution Development

To get started with developing a solution with IBM Services Essentials the following steps are generally taken:

1. Request to create or join a team. Refer to [Working with Teams](/essentials-core/how-to-guide/teams).
2. Add services from Catalog for your team. Refer to [Working with Teams](/essentials-core/how-to-guide/catalog).

## Administration

As an Administrator, you have these features available (refer to [Working with Teams](/essentials-core/how-to-guide/admin)):

1. View the Insights page for a summary of team dynamics.
2. View teams, users, service tokens, and service status, as well as triaging those elements.
3. Create and manage the Catalog templates.
4. View, edit and create email templates.
5. Adjust platform-wide settings.
6. View and create platform privacy statements.
7. View metrics for Catalog services.

# Key Concepts

As you build the foundation for your solution, familiarize yourself with these key concepts of Essentials Core. These concepts are the foundational building blocks for the platform's common services, ensuring a consistent platform that abstracts away technical complexities and importantly provides: 

- Authentication
- Authorization
- Entitlements
- Audit
- Privacy and Consent
- Requests and Operational Processing
- Configuration Management
- Status and Health

See [framework architecture](/essentials-core/architecture/framework-architecture) to find out more information.



