---
title: What's New
index: 5
---

# What's new

Get a quick overview of what has been added, changed, improved, or deprecated in version 7.5.0, released 6 December 2020.

You can find more details about the features in the detailed documentation.

## Core

### Platform-wide

- A new "partner" platform user type is available to collaborate with other users on the platform.
- Improvements to bandwidth have been made by remediating what is in XRay, updating Spring Boot<sup>®</sup> and Alpine<sup>®</sup>, and implementing faster XML.
- Welcome tab ??? https://tools.boomerangplatform.net/jira/console/browse/ISEEC-693
- User can quickly add services, using a new **Add** feature directly on the service tile in Catalog.
- Catalog flow actions synchronous. ???? https://tools.boomerangplatform.net/jira/console/browse/ISEEC-511

### Team details

New functionality in the Support Center includes:
- A team logo in the header
- Display of a client/organization under the team name in the left navigation pane
- A new right pane for the display of code assets from the Catalog.

### Admin

- New Catalog items can be created by the Team Owner for code assets and recipes.
- An Administrator can now update the status of ongoing events and add a description for the changed status.
- User profiles can be personalized with favorite team services, hidden teams, whether to send email, and other profile-based options.

### Catalog

- New Catalog items include: code assets and recipes.

### Docs

- Documentation has been improved for presentation and new content. 
- A new topic that overviews the UI is presented in [Navigating Essentials core](/essentials-core/7.5.0/introduction/navigating-core).

## Frameworks

### JavaScript packages

- 

## Packaging and installation

- 