---
title: Overview
index: 0
---

# Overview

Boomerang CICD is a modern continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD) service. Built cloud-native on top of Kubernetes<sup>速</sup>, with support for additional orchestration tools including IBM<sup>速</sup> UrbanCode<sup>速</sup> Deploy as an  alternative worker system for mobile-specific implementations.

Boomerang CICD takes a hybrid approach, combining a modern distributed build system with centralized enterprise governance using scalable infrastructure.

- Self service onboarding
- View activity and results
- View the full pipeline and information on each stage, such as currently deployed verison
- Keep your configuration with your code
- Slack integration
- Run your tests in parallel
- Dedicated build environment on demand for predictable and repeatable builds
- Secure self-contained distributed workers, so no more worrying about security!

The solution is broken up into some distinct areas.
- Components: Engine room for Git<sup>速</sup> repository integration, configuration, and activity.
- Pipelines: rapidly build, test and deploy applications by wiring together stages
- Scorecard: view point-in-time quality across a wide spectrum of metrics
- Insights: view application quality and trends over time
- Policies: create policies and quality gates
- Lib: manage libraries
- Manage: system, global, and team level configuration and management

## Users

Boomerang CICD has been built for the following types of user interactions and managed services.

### Fully managed as a service

We support an end user as a managed service, where we provide the operational capability to ensure everything is done and the delivery and development team doesn't have to be concerned with DevOps or automation.

### Managed as a service with configurations

Middle ground with managed operational capability is provided, however, the end user drives customizations and alterations. This can be done either by properties and settings, or by a multi-stage Docker file.

### Customized as a service

CICD is fully customized, with the end user able to provide their own scripts and own tasks for an activity.