---
title: What's New
index: 3
---

# What's new

Get a quick overview of what has been added, changed, improved, or deprecated in version 7.3.0 released 25 August 2020.

We focussed on providing additional reports for viewing new scorecard detailed reports and additional CICD component management options.

## Versioning

Add a new parameter to disable build numbers for being appended to version numbers

> Note: When Boomerang CICD was first established, build numbers were a natural auto-increment feature for CI systems. Some years later, this was not necessarily the case. As requested by our end users, we have created a flag `build.number.append=false` to disable this.

## Scorecard

- Support JFrog XRay reports
- Support Mobile Testing reports

## Components

Move components to another team, retaining all activity and versioning history

## Workers

- Support Docker<sup>®</sup> Hub with the container registry deployment target
- Support Helm<sup>®</sup> v3 packaging
- Support Helm v3 deployment target
- Support custom Helm v3 repositories using `deploy.helm.repo.url` when deploying to charts that are not hosted in the Boomerang chart repository

## Bosun

- Upgrades project to use latest XHR request, client-side state management and project configuration approach.

## Performance and stability

- Major improvement to Insights performance. Fixed issues with build, test and deploy stats not displaying for team components.
- Upgrade webapps to CRA v3.4.1, React Query 2.0 and core development dependencies to their latest stable versions.
