---
title: Getting Started
---

## NEED TO REWRITE FOR INSIGHTS

## Welcome to the GBS Tools Scorecard

The GBS Tolls Scorecard captures usage, usability and performance analytics and trends for all GBS Tools. We use this data to optimize the tools for GBS users.

The data is displayed over a 30 day period and will compare itself to the previous 30 days to give you a trend of how the tool is doing. Upon clicking on a particular tool you will be taken to a view that will show 6 months history.

### The Scorecard

There are two main categories of tools currently being tracked: Browser and Mobile.

#### Trend

This is the indicator for the 30 day trend.

#### Cost

Data not currently available.

#### Page Views

Mobile: Data not currently available on New Relic

Browser: Count of page view objects from New Relic

#### Sessions

Mobile: Count of unique mobile sessions

Browser: Count of unique browser sessions

#### Users

Mobile: Count of unique devices using the application

Browser: Data not currently available on New Relic

#### Most Common Platform

Mobile: Device group with highest number of sessions

Browser: User agent with highest number of sessions

#### Crashes

Mobile: Total count of mobile crashes

Browser: Total count of end user errors

#### Crash Percent

Mobile: pageViews/Crashes

Browser: sessions/Crashes

#### Response Time

Mobile: Average response time for external calls

Browser: Average end user response time

### Implementing New Relic

If you have questions around implementing New Relic in your GBS Tool, please read [here](https://pages.github.ibm.com/GBS-AIC/engineering.doc/doc/gbstools/02.howto) first and then reach out to boomrng@us.ibm.com for further help.
