---
title: Overview
index: 01
---

# Overview of Boomerang CICD

Boomerang CICD is an event driven workflow based modern continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD) service. Built cloud-native on top of Kubernetes<sup>®</sup>, with extensibility support for additional execution tools.

Boomerang CICD is focused on providing easy to use developer focused automation coupled with rich features and governance controls. After all, continuous integration is a series of tasks also known as a _workflow_!

- Self service onboarding
- View activity and results
- View the full pipeline and information on each stage, such as currently deployed version
- Keep your configuration with your code
- Slack integration
- Run your tests in parallel
- Dedicated build environment on demand for predictable and repeatable builds
- Secure self-contained distributed workers, so no more worrying about security!

The solution is broken up into some distinct areas.
- Components: Engine room for Git<sup>®</sup> repository integration, configuration, and activity.
- Pipelines: rapidly build, test and deploy applications by wiring together stages
- Workflows: 
- Scorecard: view point-in-time quality across a wide spectrum of metrics
- Insights: view application quality and trends over time
- Policies: create policies and quality gates
- Lib: manage libraries
- Manage: system, global, and team level configuration and management

## Users

Boomerang CICD has been built for the following types of user interactions and managed services.

### Fully managed as a service

We support an end user as a managed service, where we provide the operational capability to ensure everything is done and the delivery and development team doesn't have to be concerned with DevOps or automation.

### Managed as a service with configurations

Middle ground with managed operational capability is provided, however, the end user drives customizations and alterations. This can be done either by properties and settings, or by a multi-stage Docker<sup>®</sup> file.

### Customized as a service

Custom workflows and automation with the end user able to provide their own tasks