---
title: What's New
index: 4
---

# What's new

Get a quick overview of what has been added, changed, improved, or deprecated in version 8.0 released 12 February 2021.

This is a huge milestone release and we are immensely proud of what we now deliver and what this will provide to our end users. We believe the next step is **event driven workflows** with a focus on providing easy to use developer focused automation, after all, continuous integration is a series of tasks also known as a workflow!

## Workflows

- Upgrade to version 3.2 of Boomerang Flow with a number of new features. Please refer to the [Boomerang Flow What's New](https://www.useboomerang.io/docs/boomerang-flow/3.2.0/introduction/whats-new).

## Parameters

- Fixed a number of bugs with the resolution of parameters at various levels.

## Approvals

- Introduced a new advanced implementation that provides the ability to
  - Define specific approvers (1 to many)
  - Define if more than one approval is required (1 to many)
  - Define approval groups to be used across multiple stages
  - View all approvals needed and actions required to process approvals in a separate view.

## Smart Stages

- A new deployment option for Smart Stages for use with the Helm Chart Component Mode. This allows you to use the deploy activity and upgrade an existing Helm release.
- A feature flag for using Node Version Manager (NVM) to set the Node language version has been introduced.

## Performance and Bug Fixes

- Performance improvements have been made to the loading of the Pipelines screen.

# Feature Flags

The following table provides a summary of the feature flags available in the current release and whether they are an alpha or beta feature flag. 

- The **Parameter Flag** column describes the key value pair that you can create as a parameter, usually on a component, to enable a feature
- The **Support** column tells if you the feature is in alpha or beta state. See  [Understanding Feature or Mode Support](/boomerang-cicd/introduction/frequently-asked-questions#understanding-feature-or-mode-support) to learn more about what support means.
- The **Since** column contains the release when a feature is introduced or its Support state is changed.
- The **Until** column, if not empty, contains the last release in which you can still use a feature gate.

| Feature | Parameter Flag | Support | Since | Until |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Use Node Version Manager (NVM) to declare the node version to build with | `feature-node-nvm=true` | alpha | 8.1 | |