---
title: Frequently Asked Questions
index: 7
---

# Frequently asked questions

## What are the benefits of Boomerang CICD?

- We combine the best of the industry standard distributed CI systems based on workers and mix with a centralized controller for enterprise grade features such as quality gates.
- We don't just focus on one area (for example, Travis CI for CI). We include all the value-adds and specialty expertise.
- Boomerang can be implemented as an as-a-service or private cloud.
- The expertise provided by our SME-based team.

## Understanding Feature or Mode Support

We refer to certain features or modes being supported with the terminology of *Alpha*, *Beta*, or *Stable*. The following describes the meaning of these support states.

An Alpha feature means:
- Might be buggy. Enabling the feature may expose bugs.
- Support may be dropped at any time without notice.
- Feature may change in incompatible ways in a later release without notice.
- Recommended for use by early adopters, due to increased risk of bugs and lack of long-term support.

A Beta feature means:
- The feature is well tested. Enabling the feature is considered safe.
- Support for the overall feature will not be dropped, though details may change.
- The schema and/or semantics of objects may change in incompatible ways in a subsequent beta or stable release. When this happens, we will provide instructions for migrating to the next version. This may require deleting, editing, and re-creating objects.

> Note: Please do try Beta features and give feedback on them! After they exit beta, it may not be practical for us to make more changes.

A stable feature means:
- The feature is always available
- The corresponding feature flag is no longer needed
- Stable versions of features will appear in releases for many subsequent versions and deprecation notices will be provided if the feature is to be removed.

## Repository

### My repository hosting service is not supported

Contact a Boomerang representative. We want to hear about your situation and see if we can incorporate adding support for your hosting service to our feature pipeline.

### Why do I need to authorize the Boomerang CICD OAuth app?

When onboarding a new component, we need to retrieve a list of repositories for your selection. We also need access to create the component with the selected repositories's information in our CICD automation systems and to create a webhook to communicate with our CICD services. These permissions are critical to the functioning of Boomerang CICD. The Boomerang CICD OAuth app does not request more access rights than required to function correctly.

In the case of using GitHub<sup>®</sup>, the Boomerang CICD OAuth app makes use of the following GitHub features to provide self-served onboarding and automated build, test, and deploy with Git push events.
- Retrieving the contents of a single file (a `.boomerang.yaml` file for version properties)
- Setting GitHub to commit status for PR reviews (provide checks in pull request process)
- Creating deploy keys (when automatic SSH key setup is selected)
- Creating webhooks (to receive Git push events for initiate builds)
- Browsing repositories (to select which repositories have access during the onboarding process)

### I authorized the Boomerang CICD OAuth application, but I am getting an error when trying to load my repos.

The Boomerang CICD web application will look for a saved value in local storage. If you have approved the repo host previously, but manually revoked access (you removed Boomerang CICD from your approved list of applications in GitHub Enterprise), the value will exist, but the token associated with it will no longer be valid. To resolve this, manually delete the local storage item or hard refresh the browser when on the Boomerang CICD web application. This clears out all data for Boomerang CICD. The key is in the form of `bmrg_<id>_auth_token`.

This won't cause any issues, but it will ask you to re-authenticate with any repository hosting service that you subsequently attempt to use.

### What is a repository access key and why do I need to give Boomerang CICD access to my repository source code?

A repository access key is an SSH key that allows us to securely access your repository. There are two ways to enable granting access:

- Automatic - allows CICD to create GitHub Deploy keys, which are unique per a CICD component. These read-only keys are automatically added to your GitHub repo during onboarding.
- Manual - allows you to upload the private key to a repository and the corresponding public key is added to the user's account. This means that the key-pair will have access to the same repos as the user. This is only recommended in situations where multiple SSH repositories are needed to be cloned, as is the case with iOS CocoaPod dependencies.

We need access to source code to perform CICD activities for your project. We only request read-only access, so we won't be changing anything in your repo. For more information about repository access keys from providers we integrate with, see [GitHub Deploy Keys](https://developer.github.com/v3/guides/managing-deploy-keys/#deploy-keys) and [GitLab Using SSH keys with GitLab CI/CD](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/ssh_keys/README.html#using-ssh-keys-with-gitlab-cicd).

### Adding my repo failed. What are my next steps?

- Have you created a CICD component with this repository before that has been deleted? The repository might still have a webhook setup. Try deleting the old webhook in the repository's settings and try again.

- Also, check to make sure that you have rights to create a webhook for the repository. If you don't, the service may not be able to create it for you, depending on what organization the repository is a member of.

### How do I view and complete the onboarding step if I didn't finish the setup?

All components that have started onboarding and have passed the first few initial steps are available and listed in a draft status on the left panel of the CICD Components page. You can then continue the onboarding at any time.

### I push a new commit and tag that should trigger a build, but nothing happens.

- Check the `.boomerang.yaml` file to ensure that your behavior should indeed trigger a build. See [Modes and Properties](/boomerang-cicd/supporting-functionality/modes-and-properties).

- Check the Boomerang webhook in your repositories settings. For GitHub Enterprise, the path is `https://github.ibm.com/{organization}/{repository}/settings/hooks`. If there is a green ✅ next to it, then the webhook is being set correctly. Contact a Boomerang representative as something else is awry that likely needs to be fixed on our end.

- If there is a red ⚠️ symbol, then please read the error response. A few common issues are:
  - Not all of the required values are present in the `.boomerang.yaml` file
  - The repository exists in a organization that Boomerang does not have access to. Contact a Boomerang representative about moving the repository to our organization or giving our service account access to it.

### How do I perform a source code migration?

If you're migrating from an existing Git repository, the following commands can be used to migrate all branches and tags to a new repository.

1. Open **Terminal**.

2. Create a bare clone of the repository.

```
git clone --bare https://github.com/exampleuser/old-repository.git
```

3. Mirror-push to the new repository.

```
cd old-repository.git
git push --mirror https://github.com/exampleuser/new-repository.git
```

4. Remove the temporary local repository you created in step 1.

```
cd ..
rm -rf old-repository.git
```

## Performance and stability

### How long does the CI system take on average?

The average performance can vary based on how many parallel activities are taking place. The following are recorded times from a build run.

|           **Activity**           |    **Time**     |                                                      **What does this mean**                                                      |
| :------------------------------: | :-------------: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
|         Receive webhook          |   3-4 seconds   |                                 A webhook has been received and could be processed into a request.                                 |
|          Queue request           | 10 - 15 seconds |      A request has made it from the webhook to the CI orchestrator, split into relevant activities and placed in the queue.       |
|         Establish worker         | 45 - 90 seconds | An activity has made it through the queue and worker is being created. _This timing does not include wait time for a worker slot_. |
| Activity - Initiate Dependencies |    3 minutes    |                    This includes things such as a unique keychain, fresh installations of gems, and CocoaPods.                    |
|         Activity - Build         |   2 minutes +   |        Depends on the activity. It can be anywhere from 2 minutes for a library to over 10 minutes for an iOS mobile application.        |
|         Terminate Worker         | 8 - 10 seconds  |                        This is where we destroy the worker to ensure it is created clean again every time.                        |

## Activity Logs

### I am not able to download the activity log from the given link.

This usually means the process is not yet up to steps that have log output or the error concerns providing the log back to the log storage system. You will need to talk to a Boomerang representative.

### The download log screen is blank.

If you click on the download log link and it takes you to a blank screen, this means that no log is available, as not all steps output logs. We are working on making this experience better.

## Notifications

### Can Boomerang CICD notify Slack private channels?

Boomerang CICD can target any channel (public and private) that the Slack<sup>®</sup> application has access to. In some cases, the ability to post to private channels will depend on the Slack bot's access to the organization's channel. If you are using a Slack Enterprise Grid, you can easily have a private channel visible in another organization by sharing that channel to the bot's Slack organization. This is useful for teams that tend to exist primary in another Slack organization.

## Development

### I have previously set up Boomerang Lib NPM mirror as default NPM registry and want to remove it.

If you have previously configured the Boomerang Lib NPM mirror as your default registry, the command would have looked like this:

```
curl --user <W3ID Email Address>:<Artifactory Api Token> https://tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory/api/npm/auth > ~/.npmrc
npm config set registry https://tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory/api/npm/boomeranglib-npm-main/
```

Which would have resulted in the following configuration:

```
_auth=
always-auth=true
email=
registry=https://tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory/api/npm/boomeranglib-npm-main/
```

To remove this configuration, follow these instructions.

**Automatically**

1. Run the following commands:

```
npm config delete registry
npm config delete email
npm config delete always-auth
npm config delete _auth
```

2. Remove the npm or yarn lock files.

3. Remove the node_modules folder.

4. Rerun npm or yarn install.

**Manual**

1. Navigate to the location of your `.npmrc` file. This is different on Windows<sup>®</sup> opposed to Linux<sup>®</sup> / macOS<sup>®</sup>

2. Remove the lines mentioned above. In particular, remove the line that starts with `registry=` such as:

```
registry=https://tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory/api/npm/boomeranglib-npm-main/
```

3. Save the `.npmrc` file.

4. Remove the npm or yarn lock files.

5. Remove the node_modules folder.

6. Rerun npm or yarn install.

## Testing

### Is there a device farm available as part of Boomerang?

Access to a Sauce Labs device cloud is available at an additional cost to the base packages.

### We need to be able to test on both iOS and Android devices with a range of different OS.

The device cloud integration allows for up to three simultaneous devices at any one time, with a range of types and OS.

### Will we be able to run the functional automation tests in the pipeline when code is moved from an environment to another?

Testing can be enabled for each stage, as required. Gates can also be implemented to control promotion to higher level environments.

### We will need to run security scan of the code in the pipeline, for example, Veracode?

Boomerang offers additional packages at cost which can provide deep security scans. The default integrations are with Data Theorem or Application Security on the Cloud. Additional integrations with other security scanning tools can be made available.

### Our Mobile tests need emulators and simulators.

When testing is enabled for a Stage a dedicated test worker is spun up alongside the build worker where appropriate simulators are used to execute Unit and UI tests.

### SonarQube test activity could not create project key.

If you see `{"errors":[{"msg":"Could not create Project, key already exists: 5b30c411bba881000747b04b"}]}` in the logs, but the SonarQube<sup>®</sup> test step continues through to `ANALYSIS SUCCESSFUL` then the step has actually completed. The above message occurs because we request the creation of the project key every execution to ensure it is available.

### Unable to see project in SonarQube.

The issue is most likely that your user needs to be given access to the SonarQube repository. This is not automatic and requires an administrator to map the project to the users access credentials.

## Deployment

### Helm Issues

There are a number of issues that can occur when running the Helm<sup>®</sup> deployment target. See https://v2.helm.sh/docs/tiller_ssl/#troubleshooting for any SSL connection related issues.
