---
title: Infrastructure Architecture
index: 1
---

# Infrastructure architecture

The CICD infrastructure is based on top of the platform's [base infrastructure architecture](/boomerang/architecture/infrastructure-architecture).

In addition to this, CICD also has some additional areas to be aware of.

## Kubernetes workers

The CICD Kubernetes workers run as Kubernetes jobs with ConfigMaps, Secrets, and persistent volumes. This has additional concerns.

### Ephemeral storage

As with all containers, there is ephemeral storage used, which we have limited to 16GB by default. This impacts that number of workers that can be running in parallel, based on the amount of primary disk used. This is important.

CICD workers have a setting to delete completed workers. If this is not enabled, then the completed workers will remain and use up the available ephemeral storage.

See [Kubernetes ephemeral storage](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-compute-resources-container/#local-ephemeral-storage) reference information.

### Persistent volumes

If the cache is enabled for a component, then this will create and keep the persistent volume. These are set at 1GB.

This can cause quite a churn of persistent volumes.

## UrbanCode workers

IBM UrbanCode Deploy is an additional worker orchestration integration that is available. This can spin up many types of integrations.

- cloud native workers with IBM UrbanCode Deploy agents inside the container
- virtual machine-based workers dynamically spun up using Virtual Box
- tasks that run on legacy always available build services

There are specific requirements with this type of worker system, as well as additional infrastructure to host these extended types of workers outside of the Kubernetes world.
