---
title: NPM
index: 5
---

# NPM

NPM is a package manager for the JavaScript programming language. It is the default package manager for the JavaScript runtime environment Node.js. Artifactory is able to host reusable NPM compoennts as part of Boomerang Lib as well as by providing a mirror.

We recommend npm or yarn as the dependency manager.

## Configuring NPM access scoped Boomerang NPM Registry

1.  Download .npmrc configuration from Artifactory

Use the Artifactory API Key generated in the getting started section to download your npmrc file. This will download a preconfigured npmrc file for you that needs be place in your home directory.

```
curl --user <W3ID Email Address>:<Artifactory Api Token> https://tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory/api/npm/boomeranglib-npm/auth/boomerang > .npmrc
```

2. Move or Copy Contents of .npmrc

The preconfigured npmrc file can be moved to the following locations or the contents copied into these files if you already have custom configuration.

```
Windows: %userprofile%\.npmrc

Linux: / macOS: ~/.npmrc
```

3. You will end up with the following lines in your `.npmrc` file with associated values.

```
@boomerang:registry=https://tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory/api/npm/boomeranglib-npm/
//tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory/api/npm/boomeranglib-npm/:_password=
//tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory/api/npm/boomeranglib-npm/:username=
//tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory/api/npm/boomeranglib-npm/:email=
//tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory/api/npm/boomeranglib-npm/:always-auth=true
```

**Please Note:**

- You must login to Artifactory and have retrieved / set up your API Token.
- As mentioned in the Getting Started section, your access to the NPM registry will only be available after; first login AND your user has been added to the correct groups by the Boomerang Admin.

## Using the scoped packages.

1. Reference `@boomerang` scope prefix in your package.json i.e. `@boomerang/boomerang-security-middleware`

2. Reference `@boomerang` scope prefix in any require statements to these packages i.e. `require('@boomerang/boomerang-security-middleware')`

**Reference:**

- https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/scope
