---
title: Collaborative Development
index: 4
---

# Development Standards

When developing in a team, you need to allow flexibility balanced with rigor to ensure standards are met. This document explains the collaborative code management and development standards to help provide guidance to development teams.

For this to work, all developers must have tools to assist them in identifying, tracking, and developing quality code. A mechanism also needs to exist to provide feedback on the quality of their work. This process needs to bring together business, development and quality assurance to dramatically transform how organizations develop applications.

- Developers will follow a defined branching strategy and be able to commit and request for review
- Developers will receive feedback on their quality
- Developers will receive feedback automatically through a persistent communication tool

## 1. Code Management

The following are the code management standards and how we do branching, review requests and releases.

1. All work must occur on branches following the defined branching strategy
2. All work must have a pull request to be merged into the develop / stable branch. [GitHub Pull Request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/)

All source code is to be placed in IBM's GitHub Enterprise instance.

## 2. Branch Strategy

The following are the code management standards and how we do branching, review requests and releases.

|           **Name**           |           **Example**            |                                                             **Description**                                                              |
| :--------------------------: | :------------------------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
|            master            |                -                 | Represents the code that is currently in production. After a deploy to production the develop / stable branch will be merged into master |
|       develop / stable       |                -                 |                     Current branch for development work. Each feature / bug branch will be created off this branch.                      |
|     feature-\<jira-id\>      |           feature-225            |          Individual task / feature branch. Every feature will be perfomed in separate branches and requires a linked Jira task           |
| feature-\<jira-id\>-\<name\> | feature-225-componenttagcreation |                             **Optional**. Same as above with optional shortened name / description appended.                             |
|       bug-\<jira-id\>        |             bug-227              |                                                          Individual fix branch                                                           |
|   bug-\<jira-id\>-\<name\>   |      bug-227-buildsqlquery       |                             **Optional**. Same as above with optional shortened name / description appended.                             |

## 3. Git Commit Standards

We follow the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.2/) standard with the [conventional config](https://github.com/marionebl/commitlint/tree/master/%40commitlint/config-conventional). We extend it by including the Jira issue when appropriate for tracking purposes. The structure is the following:

```
<type>([optional scope]): < [[jira-code]] description>

[optional body]

[optional footer]
```

e.g. `feat(header): [PLT-42] add user profile image`

## 4. Versioning

Follow semantic versioning according to the guidance on [semver.org](http://semver.org/). When publishing pre-release versions, pay attention to [item 9](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html#spec-item-9). This useful for testing changes in an development environment without breaking semantic version and causing confusion for consumers of a service or library.

## 5. Shared Libraries

As we build out these services on Boomerang it is important to keep in mind a common shared development approach. This may mean developing in a modular way and adopting components or modules of code that have been built previously, or contributing new modules that can be shared with others.

## 6. Unit Testing

Unit tests need to be created and maintained throughout the development process. The extensiveness and method of writing unit tests with vary from technology choice however here is a general guide to follow.

As a condition for merging your code into the stable branch, all incoming branches must have unit tests and must not have any failing unit tests.

Refer to the individual development standards for Web and API development found in the navigation.
