---
title: Insights
index: 05
---

# Insights

A dynamic and interactive view of application activity, quality, and trends over time. It includes;
- Interactive graphs, zooming in out, change time period.
- Adjustable component selection and timeframe
- Split into build, test, deploy, and usage metrics

**Please Note:** This page is still under construction.

## Legacy Usage Insights

Captures usage, usability and performance analytics and trends from New Relic. This data can be used to optimize the shown applications.

The data is displayed over a 30 day period and will compare itself to the previous 30 days to give you a trend of how the tool is doing. Upon clicking on a particular application you will be taken to a view that will show 6 months history.

### The Scorecard
There are two main categories of tools currently being tracked: Browser and Mobile.

#### Trend
This is the indicator for the 30 day trend.

#### Cost
Data not currently available.

#### Page Views
Mobile: Data not currently available on New Relic

Browser: Count of page view objects from New Relic

#### Sessions
Mobile: Count of unique mobile sessions

Browser: Count of unique browser sessions

#### Users
Mobile: Count of unique devices using the application

Browser: Data not currently available on New Relic

#### Most Common Platform
Mobile: Device group with highest number of sessions 

Browser: User agent with highest number of sessions

#### Crashes
Mobile: Total count of mobile crashes

Browser: Total count of end user errors

#### Crash Percent
Mobile: pageViews/Crashes

Browser: sessions/Crashes

#### Response Time
Mobile: Average response time for external calls

Browser: Average end user response time

### Implementing New Relic

The following information will help in implementing new relic in your GBS Tool.

#### Need access to new relic
If you need access to new relic, navigate to [Boomerang Launchpad](https://launch.boomerangplatform.net) and request a new team request with New Relic as the tool.

#### Add New Relic to a Browser Tool
Read and understand the [New Relic Browser documentation](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/installation/install-new-relic-browser-agent) to understand how to install. A number of the tools go the route of Copy / Paste Javascript

#### Browser User Tracking
For the Browser tools, we need to track number of users so its important to set the User ID after login and then send a page action to new relic. Sample code is as follows;

```
// Set custom attribute in newrelic agent for user page action tracking
// https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/browser-agent-spa-api/set-custom-attribute
newrelic.setCustomAttribute('userId', currentUserId);

 
// send custom page action to newrelic with json object
// https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/browser-agent-spa-api/add-page-action
newrelic.addPageAction(actionName, jsonObject);
```