---
title: Approvals
index: 9
---

# Approvals

Approvals give you additional control over the deployment activity in your pipelines. Approvals leverage the gating capabilities of CICD to wait for users to manually approve or reject deployments to a stage. Users with the `approver` role are able to approve or deny approvals.

## Enabling Approvals

Approvals are configured in the Pipelines feature.

1. Navigate to the Pipelines feature
2. Locate the stage that you want to configure
3. Select the overflow menu located at the top right of a stage card and select the "Configure gates" option.
4. You will be presented with a modal with a toggle to "Enable Approvals". Toggle this to on and select "Save Stage".

The next time that a deployment activity is triggered for the stage, it will trigger an approval gate and wait for the response.

## Action Pending Approval

Approvers can action pending approvals from both the Pipelines and Components pipelines features.

1. Select the `Pending (n)` button in the "Gates" activity on the stage card
2. Approve or Reject the pending gates. Optionally provide a reason for your decision.
3. Select "Submit decisions"

The gate activity will change from a pending state to a completed one. Approvals that you approved will start a deployment activity for the associated component and version.

## Approver Role

The `approver` role can be assigned in Launchpad via the Teams member management feature.

> Approvers have restricted access to functionality in CICD. If a user needs more access, review the security documentation and assign additional roles as required.
