---
title: Getting Started
index: 0
---

# Getting Started

Boomerang CICD is a modern

## Boomerang CI

Boomerang CI is a continuous integration system taking a hybrid approach combining a modern distributed build system with centralized enterprise governance using scalable infrastructure.

- Self Service Onboarding
- View activity and results
- View the full pipeline and information on each stage such as currently deployed verison
- Keep your configuration with your code
- Slack integration
- Run your tests in parallel
- Dedicated build environment on demand for predictable and repeatable builds
- Secure self contained distributed workers - no more worrying about security!

## Getting started

Boomerang CI components are created from git repositories. The following steps will let you create a new CI component from a repository.

1. Navigate to [Boomerang CI](https://launch.boomerangplatform.net/apps/ci/)
2. Select the appropriate team from the teams drop down in the top left
3. Select 'Add Repository' from the side nav to launch the self on boarding wizard.
4. At the start of the wizard, you will be asked to 'Select your source repository'. See Source Code Usage Scenarios below.
5. Upon selecting a source repository for the first time, you will be promoted to authenticate and approve Boomerang CI integration with your chosen repository. Select the affirmative option and you will be redirected back to the add repo modal flow. [Why do we need access?](/boomerang-ci/frequently-asked-questions/)
6. A list of your repos will be shown in the format of `owner / name`. Selct the repository you would like to add and select the onward forward arrow to continue. _Pro Tip: Use the search to narrow the results_ [Don't see any repos?](/boomerang-ci/frequently-asked-questions/)
7. You will be presented with the modes supported by Boomerang CI. Select the mode that matches the CI pipeline you want to create. See [Modes and Properties](/boomerang-ci/modes-and-properties/)
8. Personalize the experience and enter additional details for the CI component to be created. Currently you can give the component a team-unique name. [What is the name used for?](/boomerang-ci/frequently-asked-questions/)
9. Review the details of the component to be created. Selecting the pencil icon will allow you to edit the details. Select `Create` to make the request to create the component.
10. Upon successful creation, you will receive a confirmation message. Closing the modal will reload your component list and you will see your newly created CI component! [Get an error message?](/boomerang-ci/frequently-asked-questions/)
11. Add the `.boomerang.properties` file and you are ready to go!

## Prerequisites

- A private source repository in either an approved organization such as `Boomerang-Delivery` (there's a tile on your launchpad) or a personal repository with `boomrng@us.ibm.com` added as a user with write access or above.
- If using a repository in `Boomerang-Delivery` and you have GitHub Team created for your project make sure you add the repository to your team so all members of your team can access. Direct user permissions on the repository in this case is not permitted nor required.
- Followed the Getting Started section and followed the self on boarding wizard.
- Added a `.boomerang.properties` file and other required files in the `_boomerang` folder as mentioned in [Modes and Properties](/boomerang-ci/modes-and-properties/)

## Source Code Usage Scenarios

Currently we support IBM GitHub Enterprise, IBM Cloud Git, and IBM Mobile GitLab out of the box. There are certain usage scenarios to be aware of when using these git repositories.

| Repository    | Client IP | IBM IP | IBM Asset | IBM internal | PoC / Demo |
| ------------- | --------- | ------ | --------- | ------------ | ---------- |
| IBM Mobile    | x         | x      | x         | x            | x          |
| IBM Cloud Git | x         |        |           |              | x          |
| IBM GHE       |           | x      | x         | x            | x          |

Also of note for custom repository locations, [Is your repository hosted somewhere else?](/boomerang-ci/frequently-asked-questions/)

## Source Code Migration

If you're migrating from an existing git repository, the following commands can be used to migrate all branches and tags to a new repoistory.

1. Open Terminal.

2. Create a bare clone of the repository.

```
git clone --bare https://github.com/exampleuser/old-repository.git
```

3. Mirror-push to the new repository.

```
cd old-repository.git
git push --mirror https://github.com/exampleuser/new-repository.git
```

4. Remove the temporary local repository you created in step 1.

```
cd ..
rm -rf old-repository.git
```

## Core Concepts

Boomerang CI there are some core concepts you will see throughout the UI and the documentation.

- _activity_ - a process that runs as part of CI and performs the steps based on the mode and configuration. Typical _activity_ types are `build`, `test`, and `deploy`.
- _stage_ - a key step in the pipeline. A stage represents where the _activity_ is run against and also can map to an external deployment target or environment.
- _pipeline_ - a collection of stages that run in sequence.
- _team_ - Your Boomearng CI team is created if / when you have access to CI. It is a construct to help organize the components and the pipeline is defined at this level.
- _component_ - A generic term that references a mapping to a repository and the object or artifact level that moves through pipeline.
- _mode_ - The key defining way to tell Boomerang CI what to do and allows you as the user to run activities in slightly different ways. It allows for specific functionality to be enabled based on the underlying technology and denotes the infrastructure where we will create, run, and terminate the distributed workers. See the table on [Modes and Properties](/boomerang-ci/modes-and-properties/) to see the available modes.
- _triggers_ - The method by which a stage can be triggered. There is `webhook`, `manual`, and `after stage`.
- _executors_ - The method by which the activities are orchestrated and executed. There are currently three types: `UrbanCode Deploy`, `Kubernetes`, and `Flow`.
- _repositories_ - The list of SCM providers that we integrate with. Currently `GitHub` and `Gitlab`.
