---
title: Notifications
index: 8
---

# Notifications

With any good platform or implementation, its highly useful to have an automatic notification system. This is handy for requests, notifications or other transactional events that occur and that the end user needs to know about.

Boomerang currently implements three types of notifications throughout the platform. These can also be leveraged as common services by all solutions.
 - Mail
 - In-application
 - Slack<sup>®</sup> 

These can be enabled via the settings in the Admin console, plus integration configuration as to the API tokens or channels and email addresses.

## Mail

Boomerang currently has implemented mail notifications as part of the onboarding flow for:
* Team Creation Request
* Team Creation Approved
* Team Creation Denied
* Join Team Request (will CC the team owner)
* Join Team Approved
* Join Team Denied

Additionally, Administrators of the platform can choose to use a generic mail notification template for:
* Contact User

### Common service

We have chosen to implement SendGrid<sup>®</sup>, a third-party service, and their transactional templates. SendGrid exposes a great set of APIs fit for our use case and also implements tracking and action information to better understand user engagement.

We have implemented the integration through a common microservice on our platform. This microservice relies on the data stored in the Boomerang MongoDB instance for templates and customizations to make up the payload it will send to SendGrid.

This service will:

* Retrieve details of a request, group or a member by ID
* Retrieve the appropriate template data from the MongoDB collection
* Retrieve the appropriate template from MongoDB and merge in the appropriate section customizations, then trigger SendGrid

### Analytics

To understand the end user engagement, you need to implement statistics. There are three default areas  that we use in our implementation: General, Category and Geographical.

The integration we have with SendGrid has helped enable the analytics.

**General**

This are has general click-through information. That is, how many were sent, how many were received, how many were opened, and how many were clicked through from the action.

**Categories**

We can also slice the data by category to get detailed metrics. In our implementation we include the tool, application or service plus the type of notification such as registration or outage.

**Geographical**

This simply lets us know, where in the world our emails are going and where we get the most click-throughs.

### Transactional templates

We utilize SendGrid's transactional templates for generic structure types at a high level such as a Request Notification template or Status template.

We then store these in a MongoDB collection as templates and overlay these with another MongoDB collection for sections. These sections hold customizations that can customize a transactional template. For example, take the Notification template and make it a Join Team Notification.

## In-Application

The platform also has an in-app notification capability that appears in the common UI Shell in the bell. We also provide a framework for sending these notifications.

Currently they can be sent to:

- a particular user
- an entire team
- all users of the platform - _limited to core functions_

Additionally, in-app notifications can be used by the CICD solution for activity notifications. See the CICD documentation for further information.

## Slack

The platform has a common slack microservice to provide integration to an organization's Slack.

The current types of notifications supported in the core platform are:

- Team Creation Requests
- Team Creation Approved
- Team Creation Denied
- Team Join Requests
- Team Join Approved
- Team Join Denied
- Status Incident / Maintenance Created

Additionally, Slack is used heavily by the CICD solution for activity notifications. See the CICD documentation for further information.