---
title: Components
index: 02
---

# Components

The key engine room of Boomerang CICD. This is where you see all the repositories as component objects that have been on boarded by team with the majority of the configuration being able to be driven from this area.

Additionally you can manage additional actions from the 'Manage Component' menu such as changing the mode or recreating the webhook.

Components have key concepts such as;
- A mode: every component has a mapped mode which tells Boomerang CICD how to process it and which orchestrator to run against
- Authorization

## Sidenav

Navigation is driven by your Boomerang teams. If you have a team on Launchpad that has access to the Boomerang CICD Catalog Service, then you will see your team populated in the 'teams' dropdown in the top of the sidenav.

Upon selecting a team, the components for that team will be loaded. The latest activity for each component will be displayed.

## Create Component Wizard

You are able to self-onboard repositories as components through the 'Create Component' wizard. Once you have commenced the creation of a component, it will be placed into draft status and be available to continue at any time.

Please see more in our [getting started](/boomerang-cicd/introduction/getting-started/) guide.

## Activity

The Activity view presents tiles for each activity that has been executed againt the selected repository. Each Activity can be identified by:

- _type_ - The type of activity, eg. Build, Test, Deploy, etc. Adjacent to the activity type is the build number. For completed activities the final state and duration since completion is also displayed.
- _version_ - The version of the branch or tag that triggered the execution of the activity.
- _environment_ - The target environment or stage the successfully built artifact will be deployed to. This target can range from MaaS360 and iTunes Connect to MobileFirst and Kubernetes.
- _duration_ - For activities in progress the time elapsed to date. For all completed activities the total time to execute.
- _commit details_ - Git Author and Id and Git Commit Message.

Each activity will also have links to the related git commit and links to appropriate logs, eg. build logs, deploy logs, etc.

## Pipelines

In the components pipeline view, you can view and perform actions on the connected pipelines. A connected pipeline is a pipeline that has been targeted from a components trigger.

Actions will be visible at the bottom of each stage card. Actions currently include:
- _run activity_ - Platform admins and operators are able to run a one or all activities for a specific component and version.
- _retry last activity_ - The enabled activities for the current component and version will be re-executed.
- _promote_ - Promote artifacts from one stage to another. In the case of mobile applications, when promoting to the next stage, Boomerang CI will recompile the artifact using the configuration for that stage.

## Approvals

In the component pipeline view, users with appropriate access can approve or reject deployments.

## Requests

View all the triggered activity on your component.

## Triggers

Triggers allow you to configure when a component should have activities run as part of a stage. There are currently four types of triggers;

- Manual: operators triggering a promotion or activity through the CI app
- Webhook: triggered automatically via webhook from the configured source code repository such as GitHub or GitLab.  Webhook triggers include Git Push and Git Pull Requests.
- Schedule: set the day(s) and time you want your component activities to execute.
- After Stage: automatically after the previous stage has completed. This will run no matter the status returned from the activities on the previous stage.

## Signing Certificate Upload

For mobile components such as iOS and Android any required signing certiifcates can be uploaded and securely stored for use when building mobile applications.

When viewing a mobile component, click on the "Manage Component" on top right hand corner of the the component page.

Here the user can provide
* Platform Type (Android or iOS)
* Certificate files to be uploaded (distribution and/or development certificates)
* Certificate Passphare

## Properties

Properties are an important aspect of Boomerang CICD and can be set at many different layers of the application and are substituted at execution time.

Please see more in our [properties how to guide](/boomerang-cicd/how-to-guide/modes-and-properties).
