---
title: Pipelines
index: 03
---

# Pipelines

The other key engine room of Boomerang CICD. Pipelines wire together Stages, and in turn, Stages dictate what and how an activity is run. Without pipelines and stages, components do not do anything.

## Stage Actions

You can view and perform actions on any stage which are visible at the bottom of each stage card. Actions currently include:
- _run activity_ - Platform admins and operators are able to run a one or all activities for a specific component and version.
- _retry last activity_ - The enabled activities for the current component and version will be re-executed.

## Stage Approvals

Users with appropriate access can approve or reject deployments.

## Stage Configuration

You can configure the individual stages in your pipeline. Configurable settings include general settings like the name of the stage and the ability enable/disable build and test activity. This gives you control of what happens on what stage without having to go through a DevOps representative.

Selecting the ⚙ icon on the top right of the stage card will bring up the stage options menu, select "Configure stage".

A modal will appear allowing you to set notifications and what happens for build, test, and deploy activities. These essentially set Stage level properties.

You can also duplicate stages. CICD will automatically name the new stage and replicate all the stage configuration from the parent stage.

## Stage Gates

You can configure the gates activity for a stage by clicking on the stage cards cog and selecting 'Configure Gates'

A modal will appear allowing you to select what Bosun Policies you want to enable and validate against.
