---
title: Kubernetes Pipelines
index: 01
---

# Kubernetes Pipelines

The following tutorial will run through the steps for creating a kubenertes deployment pipeline.

**Please Note:** This tutorial is still under construction.

## Kubernetes Namespaces

1. Log into your Kubernetes cluster
2. Create a namespace

```sh
kubectl create ns bmrg-tutorial-1
```

3. Download this [kubernetes yaml file](/boomerang-cicd/tutorials/assets/yaml/bmrg-rbac-cluster-admin.yaml). 

4. Apply the service account. This will create a service account mapped to the namespace admin role for IBM Cloud Private. We recommended that you create a service account with a role binding restricted to the required subset of abilities.

```sh
kubectl apply -f -n bmrg-tutorial-1 <file>
```

5. Command to copy token

```sh
kubectl get secrets -n bmrg-tutorial-1 -o jsonpath={.data.token} `kubectl get serviceaccount -n bmrg-tutorial-1 bmrg-cicd-rbac-deployer -o jsonpath={.secrets[0].name}` | base64 -D | pbcopy
```

## CICD Pipelines

First lets focus on setting up the pipeline and relevant stages

1. Navigate to [Boomerang CICD Pipelines](https://wdc1.cloud.boomerangplatform.net/dev/cicd/apps/pipelines)
2. Select the appropriate team from the teams menu
3. Create a pipeline by clicking on the 'Create Pipeline' button in the top right.
4. When the pipeline creation modal appears, name the pipeline 'kubernetes' and click 'create'
5. Create a 'dev' stage by clicking the '+' in the pipeline. 
6. When the stage creation modal appears, name the stage 'dev'. By default notifications and build≤ are enabled and we want to enable kubernetes deployments. 
7. Select the tab labeled 'Deploy' and then toggle the enable on and select Kubernetes from the deploy type.
8. A number of fields will then display asking for Kubernetes Namespaces, Connectivity Information, and Token. Fill all these in and paste the token from the above kubernetes steps

_Notes:_
- For each stage, you would have a one to one mapping to Kubernetes namespaces.

## Components & Triggers

1. Navigate to [Boomerang CICD Components](https://wdc1.cloud.boomerangplatform.net/dev/cicd/apps/components)
2. Select the appropriate team from the teams menu
3. If needed, onboard a component by selecting 'create component'
4. Select the specific component and switch to the 'Triggers' tab
5. Create or adjust the trigger to target the pipeline created above.

## Ready? Set? Trigger!

Now cause the trigger to occur based on the criteria that was configured and you will end up with a deployed service in kubernetes.