---
title: What's new
type: Automation Control Center
index: 3
---

# Automation Control Center - Release 2
---


Get a quick overview of what's added, changed, improved or deprecated in R2 released August 31st, 2019.

The purpose of this release is integration with the other 2 leading RPAs, introduction of the Custom Bot concept and integration to it and introduction of the Admin flow feature, among other features described below:

---

## 1. RPA Integration </br>

<li>UIPath </li>
<li>AutomationAnywhere  </li> </ul>
Starting from R2, ACC integrates with all 3 major RPA providers, having added adaptors for UIPath and for AutomationAnywhere. All functionalities available in R1 have been implemented for UIPath and Automation Anywhere, so the users can now get a comprehensive view at a glance of the enterprise automations.

## 2. Admin flow
New functionalities have been added to the admin user role, who can now set dashboard warning thresholds for bots and processes and manage departments as general admin settings. Also, the admin can define in detail the bot settings, Service Level Targets and schedule maintenance, specific for each bot. For processes, the admin users can define the details for each process, like department and what the process is triggered by and set the Service Level Targets for process performance.

## 3. Custom bots
One of the major features of this release; ACC now integrates with custom bots. API specifications have been created to include bot status, process execution events and activity events.  This addresses a common client request that ACC support in-house built bots.

## 4. Flag underperforming bot
ACC now empowers the end users to flag specific bots that  are not meeting their performance targets, this allows a business user to raise concerns about their workforce for triaging by COE and technical staff members. The user who flagged the bot is also able to track the progress of the triaging, so that they can understand the health and future of their workforce.

## 5. Process trigger cause description
In each process page, ACC now displays the triggers for the process: 
1) manually
2) by another process 
3) by an external system. 
Each trigger cause can be modified manually by an administrator.

## 6. Lazy bot analytics + machine learning
ACC can detect lazy bots. A "lazy bot" is a bot with a low utilization rate throughout the day, or a bot that spends a suspiciously large amount of time executing one or more processes, which is caused by either the bot having technical issues or by a process that is incorrectly configured. ACC now includes reports and visuallisations for lazy bots, as well as for detailed views relating to bot efficiency and for process efficiency over a period of time, e.g. for the last 3 days, for the last week or month.

## 7. Extract to Excel
Starting from R2, ACC permits users to export the reporting data into Excel files,  with the ability for the user to define a time range scope for the export.  The reports offer  the analytics for processes, bots, executions and cost reports for a specific period of time. 

## 8. Show linked processes
The Process page details now lists the all the dependent processes of the current one. 

## 9. Group bots
Bots can now be grouped per activity/department and bot status, so that a client can flexibly organize their bots to match their needs, for example they can mirror their organizational construct. 

## 10. Design updates
ACC has a new and improved design, to address several points arising from client feedback sessions.








---




