---
title: UI Shell
index: 6
---

# UI Shell

​
UI Shell provides a consistent navigational header for all web applications across the platform.

This provides solutions the following features from within their solution:

- Consistent user experience across the platform
- Navigation to Essentials Core applications: Launchpad, Catalog, Status, Docs and Admin
- Viewing of platform privacy statement
- Requests for account deletion
- Raising of support tickets
- Contacts for the Platform Administrators
- Integration with in-app tutorial

## Prerequisites

- [Onboarding for frontend developers](/ise/development/frontend-onboarding)
  ​

## Boomerang Create React application

- We strongly recommend that you use the Boomerang Create React application as the base for your application. It is not required, but it will make integrating with the platform simpler.
- [What is it?](/ise/development/boomerang-create-react-app)
- Follow steps in the above doc for creating a project with it.
  ​

## Platform header

- Integrated with UI Shell component
- [What is it?](/essentials-core/architecture/framework-architecture#ui-shell)
- [Repository](https://github.com/boomerang-io/carbon-addons-boomerang-react)
- [Storybook](https://carbon-addons-boomerang-react.netlify.app/?path=/story/uishell--default)
- How to integrate with core services - user and navigation services that need to be called and response passed into UI Shell
  ​

  - The `UIShell` should be contained in a container (div) and the main content of your application should reside next to the `UIShell` component.

    ```js
    <div id="app">
      <UIShell
        baseServiceUrl={CORE_SERVICE_ENV_URL}
        companyName={YOUR_COMPANY_NAME}
        headerConfig={navigationObject}
        productName={YOUR_APP_NAME}
        user={userObject}
      />
      <main>
        <App />
      </main>
    </div>
    ```

  - The `userObject` should be the response from the endpoint `` `${CORE_SERVICE_ENV_URL}/users` ``
  - The `navigationObject` should be the response from the endpoint `` `${CORE_SERVICE_ENV_URL}/users/navigation` ``
  - The `CORE_SERVICE_ENV_URL` should be a constant retrieved from `window._SERVER_DATA.CORE_SERVICE_ENV_URL`, an object created on the `window` object of the client, created by injection into the index.html by the Node.js / Express server that serves the FrontEnd application.
  - The `YOUR_APP_NAME` should be replaced by the application name.
  - The `YOUR_COMPANY_NAME` should be replaced by your company name.
    ​

- Method for passing through data to UI so you know what endpoint to call. Work with DevOps team to ensure your Helm<sup>®</sup> chart is [configured correctly](/boomerang/architecture/configuration-architecture#configuration-architecture).
  ​

### Not using React

Please reach out to the team to discuss your situation. There are ways to get things to work with Angular,depending on the major version that you are using. Other frameworks will need to be evaluated on a case-by-base basis.
