---
title: Mode is Python
index: 7
---

# Python mode

The Boomerang CI Python<sup>®</sup> mode will compile the built artifact into a docker container image, and store this image in the private, secure Boomerang Docker<sup>®</sup> Registry.

Currently this mode supports Python 2 and Python 3 languages and only GitHub repositories.

## Boomerang properties

The following summarizes the properties that can be used in conjunction with `mode=python`. We recommended these be set at the `stage` or `version` property scope.

Here is a sample `.boomerang.properties` file.

```
#General
mode=python
build.tool=pip
language.version=2|3

#Slack Notifications
notifications.type=slack
notifications.slack.channel=
notifications.slack.dm=

#Filtering
filter.target=tag
filter.expression=^(\d+\.)?(\d+\.)?(\*|\d+)$

#Enable docker packaging
docker.enable=true|false
```

### Build tool

`build.tool=` tells Boomerang CI what type of build script to apply. We currently support the following types:

| **Build Tool** | **Support** |                       **Useful For**                        |
| :------------: | :---------: | :--------------------------------------------------------- |
| build.tool=pip |    beta     | Currently used to install project/environment dependencies. |

## Prerequisites

### Build tool files

The required files for the respective build tools must be in the root directory.

- _pip:_ `requirements.txt`

### Docker

If you have set `docker.enable=true`, a `Dockerfile` is required to be present in the root directory of the repository for the build to be successful. We will make a best effort to build an image from a default `Dockerfile` for Python<sup>®</sup> projects if it is not present and the option is enabled. This is not guaranteed to work.

Here is an example. 

```
FROM python:3.6-slim

WORKDIR /opt

COPY . .

EXPOSE 5000

ENTRYPOINT ["python", "./app.py"]
```

## Assumptions

### Dependencies

We perform a `pip install` to add all project dependencies. In order to do so, we expect a `requirements.txt` that specifies the needed packages and their corresponding versions. We expect this file to be located at the top level of the project.

### Docker port

For the out-of-the-box Boomerang CI Docker pipeline, there are constraints on the exposed ports for the service. The port is `5000`.

### Testing

We run `pytest` for unit testing, which can support both `pytest` and `unittest` frameworks. The Python package `Coverage` provides code coverage.

## Scorecard

Scorecard currently does not support compilation data. All other sources of testing data for Scorecard are supported.
