---
title: Upgrading
index: 2
---

# Upgrading

Upgrade your installation to the latest version as follows.

>Note: There is currently no supported upgrade path with the Boomerang CLI.

## Prerequisites

Please ensure you revalidate the prerequisites for your update version, in case there are changes.

## Boomerang CLI

```
docker run -it --network=host -v "$HOME/.kube/config:/cli/kubeconfig" tools.boomerangplatform.net:8500/public/ise/bmrg-util-cli:1.3.0 upgrade
```

> NOTE: Only releases installed by the CLI will be upgraded.

## Upgrading via Helm

1. Ensure you have the latest Helm<sup>®</sup> chart version available on your local file system. `helm repo update`. Alternatively, you can download the tgz locally.
2. Log into the cluster, based on that platform's log-in method.
3. Prepare the changed values. We *recommend* that you export the current values yaml via `helm get values -a release_name > release_name-values.yaml` and adjust the changed values or generate a subset yaml of just the changed values. You **may** need to compare this with the values yaml of the new chart to capture any new values.
4. Back up the MongoDB database. _You will need this for rolling back._
5. Run the **helm upgrade** command. There are a number of ways to run this command, such as with `--set`. We *recommend* that you either generate a full values yaml or pass in a subset of the values yaml for the upgrade for which you want to keep the current values. The command for this would be 
```helm upgrade --reuse-values -f subset_values.yaml release_name boomerang-charts/bmrg-core  --version x.y.z```

>Note: The upgrade process may restart your pods with the UI / Services showing as unavailable or in error.