---
title: What's New
index: 1
---

# What's New

Get a quick overview of what the IAW release 1.1.0 contains.

## Release 1.1.0 Features

<strong>Project Onboarding</strong>  - This web portal allow admin’s to create and manage “Projects”/”Domains” for the Corpus Curator and User Assist solutions. It include the below mentioned features 

   1. Manage configurations to each “Project” like what is the default language, Watson or Other service’s credentials & URLs , Threshold values
   2. Manage Users and roles for Corpus Curator solution 

<br>
<strong>Corpus Curator</strong> - This web portal allow SMEs to create and manage knowledge base for their projects. It include the below mentioned features 

   1. Landing Page
   2. Activities
   3. Approval Dashboard
   4. Unanswered questions - Map to existing questions ; Add alternate questions ; Reject Q&A and assign to new SME
   5. Tag Management
   6. Document and File Management  ; Prop document conversion for ppt/pptx
   7. Bulk Upload
   8. Curate contents in multiple languages
   9. Corpus Enrichment using various AI techniques

   10. Next Gen Auto Q&A - The NextGen Auto Curation feature has been developed by IAW team in collaboration with IBM Research. This capability has been developed using the latest Artificial Intelligence technology that will allow project users to ingest documents in CorpusCurator from which question and answers will be generated automatically without any human intervention. These auto generated question and answers will enrich the project corpus, save SME time and effort and hence make the User Assist or Agent Assist solution more effective.

<br>
<strong>UserAssist</strong> - Application users can get answers to their “how to” and procedural questions, in real time, instead of calling the Level 1 Help Desk, thereby increasing their productivity, efficiency and effectiveness, and reducing the cost of application support.  They can also execute service requests and other automated tasks. This web portal allow SMEs to search knowledge base in various ways for their projects. It include the below mentioned features<br>
 

   1. Initial question & answers curation from knowledge corpus
   2. Answer short-tail questions from Q&A knowledge corpus
   3. Web crawling
   4. Search external knowledge repositories and provide answers to long-tai
   5. Dialog topics for end-to-end automation use cases
   6. Tone Analysis of the user
   7. Disambiguation in dialog topics
   8. Digression/ Context switching and resuming after
   9. Chat transfer to human agent
  10. Interrupt conversation in a channel (Web) and resume the same in a different channel (Slack)
  11. SlackBOT

<br>
<strong>Intelligent Helpdesk</strong> - The Helpdesk solution is the single window interface for next generation service delivery. It provides a single window smart helpdesk capability using artificial intelligence and end to end automation that suggests resolutions, actions problems that are auto-actionable and routes the ones that need human intervention. It include the below mentioned features<br> 

   1. Automatic interception of issue at the source (ITSM & Text Emails)
   2. Automatic problem categorization to enable quick bucketing
   3. Zero touch Root Cause Identification
   4. Advanced linguistic support to extract & auto-highlight problem terms in long complaint text
   5. Automatic identification of possible remediation action and automation execution through Automata
   6. Auto ITSM update and Corpus based auto resolution suggestion of ITSM Service requests

<br>
<strong>Automata Orchestrator</strong> - The Automata Orchestration solution provides a flexible workflow to orchestrate automation tasks for remediation of a complex problem that may need execution of multiple automata (virtual robots) in a well defined orchestrated workflow. It include the below mentioned features<br> 

   1. Process designer to create and deploy BPMN2 compliant business process automation flows
   2. Adapter's for integration across the process-centric boundaries of an organization
   3. Support for defining one or more complex execution conditions which needs to be satisfied for executing a specific automation process
   4. Automated execution of processes which are designed and deployed, and meet the defined criteria for automated resolution
   5. Support for execution of synchronous and async tasks with conditional branching, loops, exception handling and compensation flows
   6. Support for human interaction within a process flow
   7. Support for orchestrating multiple automation tools hosted in distributed & heterogeneous environment
   8. Dashboard for task level monitoring of automated processes
   9. Notification for automation start event and state changes
  10. Support for invoking multiple automation processes based on a single event
  
  
<br>
<strong>Automata Generator</strong> - The Automata Generator is an AI based automated pipeline for taking in process documentation in various forms like PDD and generates AID, PDI and ODI documentation automatically to facilitate the RPA development process. 

