---
title: Frequently Asked Questions
index: 4
---

# Frequently asked questions

## What are the benefits of Boomerang?

- We combine the best of the industry standard distributed CI systems based on workers etc, mixed with a centralized controller for enterprise grade controller such as quality gates.

- We don't just focus on one area (for example, Travis CI for CI). We include all the value-adds and specialty expertise.

- Boomerang can be implemented as an as-a-service or private cloud.

- The expertise provided by our SME-based team.

## What are the key features of Boomerang?

**Common platform**  
Boomerang is an integrated platform that pulls together a hybrid mix of technologies into a seamless E2E developer experience.

**CICD**  
Boomerang CICD allows self-onboarding of project applications into their customized pipeline.

**Dashboards and scorecards**  
These features provide access to powerful insights, scoring, and quality gates for every application. Restricted access to scorecards can be made available to clients

## Why do we need Boomerang Core?

### Technical reasoning

- Centralized management and administration of users, Teams, and the overall platform
- Centralized administration of applications like requests and processes
- Consistent technical experience, for example, every application has audit capabilities to me meet enterprise audit requirements such as GDPR
- Consolidated code base: common functions are implemented once so code is not fragmented across applications
- Adherence to standards and interfaces with libraries, to ensure each application implements the same thing

Discussion Questions: “Do you need Core?”

1. No. You can implement each of the base functionality in every application, _however_ this potentially leads to more microservices, higher cost, and lack of consistency, for example.
2. It's a fine balance between must-have functionality and common functionality that the applications implement to drive consolidation and consistency.

### Can we not just use ICP services for user management?

ICP and the platform are at different layers. So, although ICP has a flavor of each of these functional attributes and also has its own core services, it purpose is to manage that layer. For example, users in ICP have different role-based access control (RBAC) to users in the application Platform.

### Business justification

1. Speed of startup
2. Focus on the use cases dev, not on a ton of low-level integration
3. Consistency in implementation, leveraging reusable and quality code
4. Simplified/streamlined management of operational items (users, logging, auditing, onboarding, compliance, software licensee key management, usage metering for subscription and on-demand models and security).
5. Flexibility and expandability: easier to handle across multiple cloud models, more prescriptive makes it easier to publish new automation functions and enhance value across GBS (for example, from Research, Caesar, and others)
