---
title: What's New
index: 4
---

# What's new

Get a quick overview of what has been added, changed, improved, or deprecated in version 7.5.1, released 12 February 2021.

You can find more details about the features in the detailed documentation.

## Launchpad Team Settings

- Partner users can be limited with specific email domains.
- Partner users can be disallowed from being invited to teams
- The user interface for configuring custom category groups has been improved to include sortable headings and drag-and-drop ordering of groups.

## Launchpad
- The overflow menu for a catalog item now includes a selection to navigate to the detailed page for the catalog item.

## Admin

- Admin Insights has been updated with improved presentation and new statistics for new teams created and support ticket response rate.

## Status

The tabs presented in the platform Status page have been updated to reflect the number of events occurring in each.

## Frameworks

- APIs  
    The following two new endpoints have been added to the User API for role retrieval:
    - User roles in a team (single or multiple) for a particular service (same as the frameworks)
    - Bulk all users and their role for a particular service (not to be available in the frameworks)

## Performance and Bug Fixes

- The time interval is applied when switching services in the Metering feature of platform Administration. Services are also sorted alphabetically from A-Z.
- Search issues have been addressed when viewing Request Types for Add a Catalog Item in platform Administration.
- Issues with adding a Code Asset have been resolved.
- Issues with removing a service for roles other than Admin or Partner are resolved. Services can be successfully removed by a Team Owner.
- Issues with adding a member to a team have been resolved.
