---
title: What's New
index: 3
---

# What's New

Get a quick overview of what has been added, changed, improved, or deprecated in version 7.0.0 released 16th March 2020.

This is a big enhancement for Boomerang CICD bringing tighter integration between the suite of apps and driving improvements and a single experience.

You can find more details about the features in the detailed documentation.

## Home

- New centralized landing experience for teams
- Provides a summary of a teams components, pipelines, and gates, with quick insights.

## Components

- CI is now known as Components
- New component onboarding process with step by step wizard
- Component on boarding can now be paused and continued at any time with draft components
- Private repository and deployment key support for GitHub and GitLab
- Ability to auto generate an SSH key or specify a custom key
- Auto refresh of a teams components
- Auto refresh of a components activities
- Pipelines are now focussed on the connected pipelines specific to the component. _A connected pipeline being pipelines targetted by this components triggers_
- Parallel component activity capability by targetting multiple pipelines with advanced triggers

## Pipelines

- New team pipelines feature for pipeline management
- Ability to select the component in the run activity action, allowing for a quicker experience when operating multiple components

## Modes

- Updated to provide default required properties to the end user. This allows specific properties to be dynamically created at a components onboarding

## Properties

- Updated property layering with the new model available to be read about [here](/boomerang-cicd/how-to-guide/modes-and-properties)
- `.boomerang.properties` file is no longer mandatory with required properties able to be set at any of the property levels.
- Support for yaml in addition to properties format for the `.boomerang.properties` as `.boomerang.yaml`

## Boomerang Carbon Theme

- Full adoption of the IBM Carbon Design System with the Boomerang Carbon Theme

## Performance and bug fixes

- Navigational improvements including the retention of active team across the different CICD interfaces
- Further improvements to application and service performance
- Architectural shift with the CI, Scorecard, and Insights ReactJS apps being merged into one.
- Ingress routing shift with the adoption of the platforms standard for applications to be on their own context with a new context of `/cicd` being prefixed.
- Further decoupling of IBM UrbanCode Deploy (UCD) with the removal of checking UCD stage configuration and always creating components. Now we only interact with UCD if the mode specifies