---
title: Overview
index: 01
---

# Overview of Boomerang CICD

Boomerang CICD is an event driven workflow based modern continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD) service. Built cloud-native on top of Kubernetes<sup>®</sup>, with extensibility support for additional execution tools.

Boomerang CICD is focused on providing easy to use developer focused automation coupled with rich features and governance controls. After all, continuous integration is a series of tasks also known as a _workflow_!

## What are the amazing features?

- **Rich end to end experience** built for end users and abstracted from the underlying technology
- **Self service** with full **governance** controls
- Secure **self-contained scalable execution** running on top of Kubernetes, so no more worrying about security!
- Powerful **customizeable Workflows** for all your CICD automation needs
- **Reusable repeatable tasks** for use in any Workflow and Pipeline.
- View activity and results
- Full pipeline and information on each stage, such as currently deployed version
- Keep your configuration with your code
- In built Slack and mail integration for all your notifications

## What makes up Boomerang CICD?

The solution is broken up into some distinct areas. To learn more about this head to our [application architecture](/boomerang-cicd/architecture/application-architecture).

- Components: Engine room for Git<sup>®</sup> repository integration, configuration, and activity.
- Pipelines: rapidly build, test and deploy applications by wiring together stages along with enhanced governance controls with approvals and policies.
- Workflows: task based automation using a DAG 
- Scorecard: view point-in-time quality across a wide spectrum of metrics
- Insights: view application quality and trends over time
- Policies: create and manage your policies for use in quality gates
- Lib: manage libraries
- Manage and Administer: system, global, and team level configuration and management

## Who are the users?

Boomerang CICD users typically fall in the following categories of interaction:s

### Fully managed as a service

We support an end user as a managed service, where we provide the operational capability to ensure everything is done and the delivery and development team doesn't have to be concerned with DevOps or automation.

### Managed as a service with configurations

Middle ground with managed operational capability is provided, however, the end user drives customizations and alterations. This can be done either by properties and settings, or by a multi-stage Docker<sup>®</sup> file.

### Customized as a service

Custom workflows and automation with the end user able to provide their own tasks