---
title: What's New
index: 4
---

# What's new

Get a quick overview of what has been added, changed, improved, or deprecated in version 8.0 released 12 February 2021.

This is a huge milestone release and we are immensely proud of what we now deliver and what this will provide to our end users. We believe the next step is **event driven workflows** with a focus on providing easy to use developer focused automation, after all, continuous integration is a series of tasks also known as a workflow!

## Workflows

- This release introduces Workflows. Any team can now create custom automation and wire it to their Stage.
- System Workflows are now available for use via Smart Stages. System Workflows automate build, test, and deployment activities through new CICD Task Templates.

## Parameters

- The Properties terminology and syntax has now been deprecated. With backwards compatability for a number of the use cases which will be removed in coming releases
- The new Parameters terminology and syntax allows us to match the industry and be in closer alignment. To learn more go to the [Getting to Know Parameters](/boomerang-cicd/getting-to-know/parameters)
- The `.boomerang.properties` file is now deprecated. We will maintain backwards compatability for now. Please refer to the [Deprecations](/boomerang-cicd/introduction/known-issues) table.

## Components

- New ability to View Activity on the Components Activity and drill down to the tasks that were executed as part of that Activity

## Stage Configuration

- Two new options, **Smart** and **Custom**, are available for the Add Stage functionality.  Stages created prior to Boomerang CICD 8.0 are aligned with **Smart** stages.
- **Helm v2** has been removed from the **Smart** stages Deploy Type targets in the configuration of stages. **Helm v3** is now an available option. 

## Bosun

- TypeScript<sup>®</sup> is now available for use in the development environment.

## Documentation

- Documentation has been improved for presentation and new content.
- A new topic that overviews navigating Boomerang CICD is presented in [Navigating Boomerang CICD](navigating-cicd).

## Performance and Bug Fixes

- New Kubernetes Storage Classes have yielded significant performance improvements across all activities.
