---
title: Web Testing
index: 02
---

# Web Testing

The chosen provider for Boomerang@IBM is Sauce Labs<sup>®</sup> Selenium<sup>®</sup> Grid.

## Selenium Native

The `seleniumNative` testing option allows project teams to capture `native` Selenium scripts in Java using browser addons such as Selenium IDE.  The scripts are dynamically `wrapped` in the Boomerang Selenium web testing framework and then executed against Sauce Labs. For example, project teams do not need to concern themselves with the underlying Selenium implementation.

### Recording your native Selenium scripts

1. Install the Selenium IDE addon into your browser.
2. Record your web test.
3. Save you web test in Java format under a sub-folder in your component's source code repository.
4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for as many different web tests you wish to have executed through Boomerang CICD.

### Enabling `seleniumNative` testing on your Boomerang CICD pipeline

1. Navigate to your team in Boomerang CICD.
2. Switch to the `Piplelines` view.
3. Select the appropriate pipeline.
4. Click **Configure** on the appropriate Stage.
5. Activate the **Enable Test Activity** toggle.
6. Select **seleniumNative** from the **Test Type** dropdown.
7. Click **Save**.
8. Switch to the Manage/Team Properties view.
9. Create new properties for:
```
saucelabs.api.key=<Your Access Key from https://app.saucelabs.com/user-settings>
saucelabs.api.user=<Your User Name from https://app.saucelabs.com/user-settings>
```
10. Click **Save**.
11. Switch to the Components view.
12. Select your component.
13. Select the **Configuration** tab.
14. Create new properties for:
```
browser.name=<The name of the browser test against, eg. firefox>
browser.version=<The version of the browser you want to use in your test, eg. latest>
platform.type=<Which operating system the browser should be running on, eg. macOS>
platform.version=<Which operating system version the browser should be running on, eg. 10.13>
web.tests.folder=<Folder location containing the native Selenium scripts>
```
See https://wiki.saucelabs.com/display/DOCS/Test+Configuration+Options#TestConfigurationOptions-Selenium-SpecificOptions for full list of supported values.
15. Click **Save**.

You're now good to go. Trigger a new build, and your native Selenium scripts will be executed by Boomerang CICD.  Navigate to https://app.saucelabs.com/dashboard/tests/vdc to view your executed web tests.

## Selenium Custom

The **seleniumCustom** testing option allows project teams to execute their own Selenium projects. Project teams need to build out all the Selenium integration including the underlying framework. The primary benefit for adopting this approach is that project teams can also wrap their own custom code around the Selenium framework.

With the **seleniumCustom** option, there are a few dependencies.

1. The custom Selenium project must be written using Java Spring Boot.
2. The project must support Maven for compilation and testing.
3. The project must support HTTP proxy for outbound REST calls. Boomerang CICD will append the project `application.properties` file with the following additional properties at test execution time:
```
http.proxyHost=<Platform proxy host>
http.proxyPort=<Platform proxy port>
https.proxyHost=<Platform proxy host>
https.proxyPort=<Platform proxy port>
```

### Enabling `seleniumCustom` testing on your Boomerang CICD pipeline

1. Navigate to your team in Boomerang CICD.
2. Switch to the Piplelines view.
3. Select the appropriate pipeline.
4. Click **Configure** on the appropriate stage.
5. Activate the **Enable Test Activity** toggle.
6. Select **seleniumCustom** from the Test Type dropdown.
7. Click **Save**.
8. Switch to the Manage/Team Properties view.
9. Create new properties for:
```
selenium.application.properties.file=<Folder location where your application.properties is stored>
selenium.application.properties.key=<The application.properties key for the Selenium Grid server URL.  The value will be dynamically replaced with the Sauce Labs Selenium Grid URL by Boomerang CICD at run time>
selenium.report.folder=<Folder location which will be zip'd and pushed to the Boomerang artifact repository upon completion.  Optional>
```
10. Click **Save**.
