---
title: Mode is Xamarin
index: 4
---

# Xamarin mode

The Xamarin mode will execute `msbuild` based commands to build, test, and deploy both iOS and Android mobile artifacts.

**Please note:** this mode is currently archived and no active maintenance is being performed.

## Boomerang Properties

The following summarizes the properties that can be used in conjunction with `mode=xamarin`. These are recommended to be set at the Stage or Version property scope.

The below is a sample file `.boomerang.properties` file.

```
#General
mode=xamarin

##Refer to Build Tool section for more information
build.tool=xcode
build.tool.version=8.3.2

#Schemes
##Refer to Schemes Names and Folders section for more information
scheme.name.iOS=BoomerangDemoXamarin
scheme.folder.iOS=iOS

scheme.name.android=BoomerangDemoXamarin
scheme.folder.android=Droid

#Build and Version Numbering
set.version.number=true
set.build.number=true

#Slack Notifications
notifications.type=slack
notifications.slack.channel=
notifications.slack.dm=

#Filtering
filter.target=tag
filter.expression=^(\d+\.)?(\d+\.)?(\*|\d+)$
```

### Required Properties

The following properties are required for `mode=xamarin`

```
scheme.name.ios=BoomerangDemoXamarin
scheme.folder.ios=iOS
scheme.name.android=BoomerangDemoXamarin
scheme.folder.android=Droid
```

### Build Tool

The `build.tool` and `build.tool.version` properties apply to the iOS module(s) in the Xamarin project only.  Boomerang CI needs these properties to ensure the correct xcode worker is selected.
For Android, all SDK's from API version 24 onwards are supported by all Android workers hence `build.tool` and `build.tool.version` are not required for the Android module(s).

See `[Boomerang CI \ Modes and iOS \ Build Tool]` for details on available iOS workers.

### Scheme Names and Folders

The `scheme.name.*` properties refer to the Xamarin package name.  The value can be the same for both iOS and Android.

The `scheme.folder.*` properties refer to the source folder where each iOS and Android project is located.

### Build and Version Numbering

Use the following parameters to enable/disable the CI system from setting your version or build number automatically

`set.version.number`

`set.build.number`

## Prerequisites
None.

## Build Tool Files
None.

## Build Assumptions
None.

## Constraints
None.

## Signing
If you require your application to be signed with a custom key store rather than the default debug signing, you will need to talk to your DevOps Representative to ensure that signing certificates are securely managed and password protected by the DevOps team.

## Test Activity
This mode does not currently support running tests. This will be enabled in a future beta release.
