---
title: Mode is Helm Chart
index: 8
---

# Helm Chart mode

The Boomerang CI Helm Chart mode will package the helm chart and store in the private Boomerang Chart repository

These charts are then available in any of the Boomerang ICP instances.

## Boomerang Properties

The following summarizes the properties that can be used in conjunction with `mode=helm.chart`. These are recommended to be set at the Stage or Version property scope.

The below is a sample file `.boomerang.properties` file.

```
#General
mode=helm.chart
build.tool=helm

#Slack Notifications
notifications.type=slack
notifications.slack.channel=
notifications.slack.dm=

#Filtering
filter.target=tag
filter.expression=^(\d+\.)?(\d+\.)?(\*|\d+)$
```

### Optional

**Auto Increment Chart Version**

To auto increment the chart(s) version number set this to true. It will increment the patch number on a semver2 compliant version i.e. 0.1.2 will become 0.1.3. It will also handle additional labels i.e. 0.1.2-beta will become 0.1.3-beta

```
#Auto increment chart(s) version.
helm.chart.version.increment=true|false
```

**Set Chart Version to Tag**

To set the chart(s) version to the Git Tag. Useful if the git repository only has one chart in it. *Caution:* if this is set AND `helm.chart.version.increment` this will take precedence.

```
helm.chart.version.tag=true|false
```

**Set Chart Directory**

If you have multiple directories in your git repository such as a `development` and `stable` folder and only want CI to pick up one folder or the other.

```
#Directory chart(s) are located in such as stable or development. IF chart(s) in root leave blank
helm.chart.directory=
```

**Chart Ignore List**

If you multiple charts in your git repository and want to ignore particular charts. This can be useful for reference charts or charts in very early development.

*Note:* this is a space delimited list.

```
#List of chart(s) to ignore.
helm.chart.ignore=
```

### Build Tool

`build.tool=` tells Boomerang CI what type of build script to apply. We currently support the following types:

| **Build Tool** | **Support** |                       **Useful For**                        |
| :------------: | :---------: | :---------------------------------------------------------: |
| build.tool=helm | stable | The industry standard for generating Helm charts for Kubernetes. |

## Prerequisites

The Chart.yaml and associated chart files / directories are located at the top level of the project.

## Constraints

Logs are currently not accessible via CI. Nor is there any linting or scorecard data generated.

`_stable` is a reserved folder and can't be in your workspace

## Useful Links

https://docs.helm.sh/chart_template_guide/#the-chart-template-developer-s-guide