---
title: Overview
index: 0
---

# Admin

The Admin application has the following functionality

- Insights
- Team Managements
- User Management
- Request processing
- Audit Log
- Security Tokens
- Catalog Templates
- Status management
- Settings management
- Consent Management

## Insights

Admin insights is a small dashboard that shows basic usage information of the platform. It will show;

- Total number of users
- Total number of teams
- Active number of users
- New users in last 30 days
- Number of requests

## Team Management

- All teams showing; number of users, number of tools, date created and status (active or inactive)
- Team search
- Team detail
- Change owner of team
- Remove user from team
- Tools in team

## User Management

- All users showing name and date joined.
- User search
- User detail
- Email User
- Change role(s) of user
- Activity Log
- Remove user

## Requests

All platform processing goes through requests that appear in admin and can be processed by administrators. They involve unique actions that are required for each request type. Some of these will be custom to the catalog template.

- Create Team
- Join Team
- Add Tool to Team
- Leave Team
- Leave Platform
- Close Team

## Audit Log

View all activity that happens on the platform split by HTTP, CRUD, or CUSTOM and is filterable by solution, user, and date range

## Tokens

Functionality for admins to view, create and delete service tokens. Service tokens allow authorization to particular functionality on the platform.

## Templates

Templates are the catalog definition for a solution. They denote the characteristics for a particular solution, how it interacts with the platform, and any requirements on that solution.

In particular you define the user roles, runtime settings, and the actions to be performed in requests.

## Status

The entire platform status can be controlled from this screen showing maintenance and outage items.

## Settings

Settings are the post installation configurable settings that can be configured live for the running solutions.

## Consents

Platform-wide consent agreements can be viewed and created. Creation of a new agreement will force all users to consent to it.
