---
title: Frontend Developer Onboarding
index: 1
---

# Getting started as a Boomerang frontend developer

Welcome to the Boomerang platform frontend team. Glad you are here! Please follow the steps below to get started.

## Let's be friends

1.  Navigate to [Boomerang Launchpad](https://launch.boomerangplatform.net).
2.  Select "Add Team" icon on the bottom of the sidenav.
3.  Select "Join a Team".
4.  Search for and select "IBM Services Engineering".
5.  Complete request. Send us a nice message as to why you are joining while you're at it please 😊.
6.  We will process your request in a timely manner. "IBM Services Engineering" will appear in the sidenav and you have will access to our tools.

## Setting up your local

You need to configure your local dev environment before you can start building things. We have internal npm packages used by all of our web apps. You must set your npm registry to our Artfactory instance to install them.

1.  Navigate to the [Boomerang Artifactory instance](https://tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory).
2.  Login in and select the user dropdown on the top right of the page. Select "Edit Profile".
3.  Under the "Authentication Settings" header, select the ⚙ icon to generate an API key and save it. Copy the key and keep it handy. You will need it soon.
4.  Do you have `curl` or are you able to install it? Skip to step 7. Still here? Navigate to the "Artifacts" view via the sidenav.
5.  Select "boomeranglib-npm".
6.  Select "Set Me Up" towards the top right of the page and follow the instructions in the modal for scoped packages. I repeat, **scoped packages**. The scope for our packages is: `boomerang`. You have to follow the "Using basic authentication" steps, including base64 encoding your API key because our instance is protected by IBM w3ID.

7.  If you have `curl`, execute the following to make your life easier. If not skip to step 8.

```
$ curl -u <YOUR_EMAIL>:<API_KEY> https://tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory/api/npm/boomeranglib-npm/auth/boomerang -o ~/.npmrc
```

8.  Your `~/.npmrc` file should look like the following:

```
@boomerang:registry=https://tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory/api/npm/boomeranglib-npm/
//tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory/api/npm/boomeranglib-npm/:_password=<BASE64_API_KEY>
//tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory/api/npm/boomeranglib-npm/:username=<YOUR_EMAIL>
//tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory/api/npm/boomeranglib-npm/:email=<YOUR_EMAIL>
//tools.boomerangplatform.net/artifactory/api/npm/boomeranglib-npm/:always-auth=true
```

9.  Run `npm install @boomerang/<boomerang-package>` or `yarn install @boomerang/<boomerang-package>` to verify that it worked e.g. `npm install @boomerang/boomerang-components`.
10. Happy developing!

## Troubleshooting

If you used `curl` and are receiving `403` errors, try the command again with the `-o` flag to pipe the response to the `.npmrc` file. People have encountered issues when copy/pasting directly from the terminal.
