---
title: Publish Container to External Registry
index: 02
---

# Publish Container to External Registry

The following tutorial will run through how to publish a container to an external registry.

## Configure Your Pipeline

First lets focus on setting up the pipeline and relevant stages

1. Navigate to [Boomerang CICD Pipelines](https://launch.boomerangplatform.net/cicd/apps/pipelines)
2. Select the appropriate team from the teams menu
3. Create a pipeline by clicking on the 'Create Pipeline' button in the top right.
4. When the pipeline creation modal appears, name the pipeline 'Tutorial' and click 'create'
5. Create a stage by clicking the '+' in the pipeline. 
6. When the stage creation modal appears, name the stage 'Build and Publish'. By default notifications and builds are enabled and we want to additionally enable deployments. 
7. Select the tab labeled 'Deploy' and then toggle the enable on and select 'Container Registry' from the deploy type.
8. A number of fields will then display asking for details. Fill all these in.

## Configure a Connected Component

1. Navigate to [Boomerang CICD Components](https://launch.boomerangplatform.net/cicd/apps/components) - this will keep the team already selected.
2. Select a component in the left hand list
3. Navigate to the triggers tab on the component details
4. Adjust the default trigger to connect to our new 'Build and Publish' pipeline
5. Trigger this component by the method chosen i.e. new Git Push or Git Tag.
6. Watch your component build a container and publish this to your new registry!

## Bonus

As a bonus, lets set up a stage to run automatically after the prior stage and deploy this container out

1. Navigate back to [Boomerang CICD Pipelines](https://launch.boomerangplatform.net/cicd/apps/pipelines) - this will keep the team already selected.
2. Create a stage by clicking the '+' in the 'Tutorial' pipeline. 
3. When the stage creation modal appears, name the stage 'Deploy' and toggle 'Run After Prior Stage' to enabled.
4. Select the 'Builds' tab and disable the toggle.
5. Then Select the tab labeled 'Deploy' and toggle the enable on and select 'Kubernetes' or 'Helm' from the deploy type.
8. A number of fields will then display asking for details. Fill all these in.

## Conclusion

You now have a pipeline that will publish the container to an external registry and run another deploy immediately after success to update an end deployment target to utilize this container.