---
title: Frequently Asked Questions
index: 4
---

# Frequently asked questions

## What are the benefits of Boomerang?

- We combine the best of the industry-standard distributed continuous integration (CI) systems, mixed with a centralized controller to achieve enterprise-wide  quality of the application. Feature include quality gates, control over components being built and deployed by specific developers. 

- We don't just focus on one area, for example, Travis CI<sup>®</sup> for CI. We add value in all areas of the application and provide for specialty expertise.

- The platform can be deployed as a service or in a private cloud.

- Our team is composed of subject matter experts (SMEs).

## What are the key features of Boomerang?

**Essentials Core**  
Essentials Core is an integrated platform that pulls together a hybrid mix of technologies into a seamless end-to-end developer experience.

**CICD**  
Boomerang allows self-onboarding of project applications into their customized pipeline.

**Flow**
Automate complex workflows with a powerful visual editor.

**Dashboards and scorecards**  
The platform provides access to powerful insights, scoring, and quality gates for every application. Restricted access to scorecards can be made available to clients.

## Why do we need Essentials Core?

**Technical reasoning**

- Centralized management and administration of users, teams, and overall platform
- Centralized administration of applications and their requests and processes
- Consistent technical experience of applications that meet audit requirements, such as GDPR
- Consolidated code base, where common functions are implemented once so code is not fragmented across applications
- Standards and interfaces with libraries to ensure each application implements the same thing

**Discussion questions on “Do you need Core?”**

1. No. You can implement base functionality in every application, _however_, this may lead to more microservices, higher cost, and lack of consistency.
2. It's a fine balance between must-have functionality and common functionality in the applications. Consolidation and consistency should be considered when implementing functionality.

**Can we just use ICP services for user management?**

IBM Cloud<sup>®</sup> Private (ICP) and the platform are two distinct layers in the overall architecture. ICP exposes a wide array of services including those to support RBAC, however these services only support and manage the base Kubernetes<sup>®</sup> stack and do not extend to nor can they be leveraged by applications running on Boomerang, such as CICD and Flow. 

The primary reason for the separation of services here is that users of each layer are very different. For example, administrators and support staff will access ICP and end users will access the application layer.

**Business justification**

- Speed of startup
- Focus on the use cases development, not on a ton of low-level integration
- Consistency in implementation, leveraging reusable and quality code
- Simplified/streamlined management of operational items (users, logging, auditing, onboarding, compliance, software licensee key management, usage metering for subscription and on-demand models and security)
- Flexibility and expandability, making it easier to handle across multiple cloud models
- More prescriptive and easier to publish new automation functions, enhancing the value across GBS (from Research, Caesar, and others)
