---
title: Overview
index: 0
---

# Overview

The Automation  Control  Center is a value-add  component  on the IBM Automation  Platform  that provides business managers  with insights and a holistic view into the operational business performance  of their digital  workers and business processes.<br>
<br><br>
<b>Top Use Cases:</b> <ul>
<li>The  ability to view and  analyze  data generated  by RPA bots, for the purpose  of workforce and  workload management</li>
<li>The  ability to view business processes, track executions and see who is working  on a process at any given time </li>
<li>Receive alerts and notifications relating  to the health  of your bots and business processes </li></ul>
<br>
<b> Bot Page </b> <br>
<b>The  Bot Page</b> provides a user with details about  a particular digital worker, with a focus on what work the bot has been performing,  details about  the exact execution  that the bot worked  on and  what upcoming  work they have to do.
<b>Primary  Value  Point:</b> Providing users with a single  and consistent taxonomy  for the representation of the health  of a bot, irrespective of technology;  thus  providing  business managers  with a single  point of reference that is optimized towards their needs as business administrators. <br>

<b> Process Page </b> <br>
<b>The  Process Page</b> provides a user with details about  a specific business process, including  its performance, status, architecture and  workforce construct.
<b>Primary  Value  Point:</b> Providing users greater transparency across their business processes, and visibility of the workers who are operating  on a process at any given time and  the ability to do capacity planning  for their workforce based on actual and forecasted demand.
<br>

<b>Admin Pages </b> <br>
The admin can set dashboard warning thresholds for bots and processes and manage departments as general admin settings. Also, the admin can define in detail the bot settings, Service Level Targets and schedule maintenance, specific for each bot. For processes, the admin users can define the details for each process, like department and what the process is triggered by and set the Service Level Targets for process performance.
<br>
ACC is a vendor agnostic system (although the Release 1 primarily focuses upon Blue Prism) solution that allows business managers to monitor their hybrid workforces and automated business processes and understand current workloads and performance.